The House on Thornrose Lane: A Grimm Tale
Alicia Blade

Chapter 1: Puss in Boots
“Listen,” said the cat, “there’s no need to kill me when all you’ ll get will be a pair
of poor gloves from my fur. Have some boots made for me instead. Then I ’ll be able to go
out, mix with people, and help you before your know it.”
from Puss in Boots


“You are never going to believe what happened in chemistry!”

Serena closed her locker and glanced at her best friend, Melvin, from  the corner of her eye. He stood tottering excitedly from foot to foot,  barely an inch taller than Serena’s petite form. “Did you blow  something up?”

Melvin scrunched up his nose. “Of course not. Chemistry’s my number  one subject.”

“Right,” she muttered. “Okay, I give up. What happened in chemistry? ”

Pushing coke-bottle glasses higher on the bridge of his nose, Melvin  announced proudly, “We picked lab partners!”

Rolling her eyes, Serena slung her backpack higher on her shoulder and  fell back against the wall of lockers. “Melvin,” she said patiently,  “remember that talk we had about things people just aren’t interested  in, like your lepid—lepid—”

“Lepidoptera.”

“Lepidoptera collection? And the fact that you study for forty hours a  week and have a 4.2 GPA? Melvin, I care about you and all, and I’m  glad you’re so excited about your lab partner, but—”

Shaking his hands in front of her to stop the lecture, Melvin blurted,  “It’s Darien!”

The words she’d been thinking dissipated with the mention of his name  and she found her heart beating noticeably quicker. “Excuse me?” she  squeaked.

Nodding proudly with a huge grin on his acne-scarred face, Melvin  continued, “Told you this was exciting.”

“Melvin, how did you—Why did you—? Darien Shields?”

“Of course! Don’t you see, Serena? This is perfect! What better  excuse to feed him information about you?”

Going pale, Serena quickly shook her head. “Oh no, uh-uh, you will do  no such thing! Do you hear me, Melvin Edward Gimmerson?”

Melvin grimaced. “I hate it when you call me that.”

Scowling down her nose, Serena placed her hands on her hips. “I’m  serious! I don’t want you to mention me or drop hints or anything.”

“But Serena, why not? You’ve only had a crush on him since fifth  grade! This is the perfect opportunity. I have it all figured out.  First I’ll tell him about how amazing and pretty you are—”

“Melvin…”

“No, listen! Then, when he’s really intrigued, I’ll make up some  story about your older quarterback boyfriend from Italy coming down  with mad cow disease and now you need a date to homecoming and voilà!  Date achieved!”

Closing her eyes, Serena hit her head a few times against the locker,  then sighed. “Melvin, what part of that huge 4.2 GPA brain of yours  thinks that is a good idea?”

“Well, scientific research shows that the cerebrum of the brain—”

“Never mind. Just… no. I am not going to try and get him through a  series of blatant lies, and I’m certainly not going to have you doing  all the lying. Besides, you’re a terrible liar.”

“So what, then? Are you going to spend your whole life waiting for him  to come and sweep you off your feet? This isn’t a fairy tale, Serena. ”

Serena bristled. “I know that.”

“Ah, I’m sorry, Sere. It’s not…I meant… you know, it could happen.  Fairy tales come true. Then again, so do horror flicks, but you know… ”

“There he is!” Serena inhaled sharply and Melvin didn’t need to turn  around to know that junior Darien Shields, the heartthrob of Crossroads  High, was walking down the hallway. Pursing her lips, Serena tried to  both cower into the unforgiving lockers as well as keep her eyes  trained on him for as long as possible. She didn’t really need to look  at him, of course, having long before memorized his stature, the way  his shoulders moved when he walked, the cool undertones in his  otherwise warm cerulean eyes, the messy hair that always seemed just  enough out of place to be sexy without appearing unkempt.

She gulped, the tiniest bit of an embarrassed blush reaching her  cheeks, and watched him pass. He didn’t notice her, she noted with  equal parts disappointment and gratitude. She was sure she would have  to change schools if he ever knew how she gawked at him every time he  was in sight.

At the end of the hallway Darien was met with a handful of his friends  and they rolled out into the courtyard, disappearing from view. Serena  finally let out her breath and the world sparked to life again.

“You are going to wait your whole life for him to sweep you off your  feet, aren’t you?” Melvin asked from beside her, and she mentally  chided herself for all but forgetting that he was still there.

“Of course not,” she said, not sure who she was convincing, and threw  a brilliant smile at Melvin. “I’d take just about any prince, really.  He’s just the closest I’ve found so far. Come on.” Threading her  free arm around Melvin’s elbow, she headed toward a different exit of  the school.

“Say, how did you manage to talk him into being partners with you  anyway?”

“I didn’t,” answered Melvin, pushing his glasses up again. “He  asked me.”

-----

“Maybe he wanted to partner with you because you’ll ensure that he  gets a good grade,” Serena suggested, ticking off reasons that the  popular Darien Shields would ever want to partner with her geeky  outcast of a best friend.

Melvin tilted his head back to look at a cloudy sky. “At first I  thought that, too, but Darien has the second highest grade in our  class, after me, of course, and the fifth highest GPA in the school.”

Serena frowned. “Melvin, where do you find all this out?”

“Isn’t it common knowledge?”

“No, it’s not. Besides, if either of us is going to stalk him,  shouldn’t it be me?”

Ignorant of her teasing, Melvin answered defensively, “I’m not  stalking him!”

“Maybe he wants to be with someone as smart as he is so he won’t get  taken advantage of. I hate it when I have to do all the work in a team  project.”

“Honestly, Serena, when has that ever happened?”

“Hey, it’s happened! Well, at least, it could happen. If I were ever  paired up with a bigger procrastinator than myself.”

Scoffing, Melvin turned toward his driveway, three doors down from  Serena’s. “Want to come in for a snack? Mom said something about  bagel prune bites this morning.”

“Noooo thank you,” said Serena, sticking out her tongue in disgust  and turning toward her house, but Melvin calling her name made her turn  back to him.

“I almost forgot! You left this at my house yesterday.” After  reaching into his backpack, Melvin pulled out a thick blue book with  gold embossed lettering on the spine.

Serena gasped, grabbing it from his hands. “I didn’t even notice it  was missing!” she squealed excitedly.

“Probably too busy dreaming about Mr. Shields.” Melvin was met with a  half-hearted glare, but smiled widely and asked, “By the way, is there  anything you want me to ask him about tomorrow? I can at least play  detective, can’t I?”

Giggling, Serena cradled the book in one arm, and reached her free hand  up to tug on one of two identical blonde ponytails on top of her head.  “Sure! Ask if he prefers ‘Prince Charming’ or ‘Knight in Shining  Armor.’”

Serena watched Melvin disappear into his home, shaking his head at her.  She turned on her heels and headed toward her own home, her eyes glued  to the beautiful book. It was her prized possession, given to her by  her grandmother for her sixth birthday: an antique copy of the Brothers  Grimm’s Fairy Tales, published in 1857, and still in great condition.  At least, it had been when she’d been given it. Over the past nine  years, Serena had read and reread the stories. Now, the pages were  slightly torn and most of the gold embossing on the cover had been  rubbed off. She didn’t mind though; it was still the most beautiful  book she’d ever laid eyes on.

The cracked spine opened immediately to “Brier Rose,” her favorite of  all the tales and one that she had memorized word for word.

“Once upon a time there lived a king and queen,” she murmured  whimsically to herself, “who very much wanted a child. Then, one day,  the queen gave birth to a little girl and the entire kingdom rejoiced.  They named her Brier Rose . . .” She turned a couple pages. “Brier  Rose touched the spindle of the spinning wheel and fell into a deep  slumber. The kingdom slept along with her and for one hundred years  they dreamt while thorns grew up around the castle. . . . When the  prince saw the princess lying asleep, he fell immediately in love with  her and couldn’t help but to kiss her with love’s first kiss. Brier  Rose opened her eyes and fell in love with the prince before her. . . .  And they lived happily ever after.”

With a huge grin, Serena closed the book and hugged it to her chest for  a moment. Contented, she slipped it into her bag, its usual home, and  turned down her driveway, stretching her arms up over her head with an  enthusiastic yawn, the bag dangling from her fingers. “Ah, and that  makes a lovely seventeen hours before I have to go back to school.”  Swinging her arms, she began to go over her options for an after-school  snack. She’d narrowed it down to either Doritos or Oreos with milk  when she reached her house and heard a low mewing from the bushes in  front of the porch. Pausing, she furrowed her brow and crouched down in  front of her mom’s Japanese maple and spotted a small gray kitten  sitting calmly beside the trunk.

“Hello, there,” Serena cooed at the cat, who blinked at her with  wide, reddish eyes, his large ears turned forward. “Are you lost?”

Serena could see a red collar around the kitten’s neck with a tiny  silver bell and a charm that she hoped would have an address on it.  Holding out her hand, she beckoned to the kitten in her sweetest  coaxing voice. For a long while, the cat only sat with its tail curled  around its paws, analyzing Serena with a calm, studious gaze. “Well,  come on,” Serena said with the tiniest hint of agitation. “I’m not  going to hurt you. Come out of there.”

Finally, the cat stood and stretched its back, holding its tail up with  an air of pride, and sauntered toward Serena on dainty white feet.

“Well just take your sweet time,” Serena murmured when the cat  finally got close enough for her to sweep it up in her arms. Instantly  the cat began purring and Serena held it against her chest with one  hand—it fit nicely in her palm—and checked the little silver charm  with the other. “Ah, Puss in Boots, is it?” she said, reading the  name on the tag with a chuckle. “I’ve always wanted to have a cat  with that name. So where’s your family with the good taste?” She  turned the charm over, delighted at first to see that there was an  address, but her excitement quickly fell. “Thornrose Lane? But that’s  on the other side of town! How did you get all the way over here?”  Puss in Boots looked up at her innocently, before tapping its wet nose  against her chin as if requesting a nice scratch behind its ears.  Serena complied with a sigh. “Fine, but at least let me drop off my  stuff, okay?”

A minute later, Serena was walking out her door with the kitten held  complacently in her arms, having rid herself of the weight of her book  bag. She’d considered calling Melvin and asking him to make the long  trek with her, but she knew he’d be busy studying and didn’t want to  distract him.

It was a forty-minute walk and Serena was grateful for the cloudy  September sky, which she noted was the same light color as the kitten’ s fur, and showed no sign of rain. She hoped there would still be  daylight by the time she had dropped the kitten off and was heading  home.

Finally, Serena found Thornrose Lane, a road that had once been  beautiful and busy. Now it had fallen into disrepair—not enough for  the city council to worry about, but enough to make Serena nervous as  she counted the numbers on the houses. The kitten seemed to grow  restless as they walked along, meowing into Serena’s ears and pawing  at her hair.

“Almost home,” Serena said, finally spotting the house that matched  the address on Puss’s collar. She cringed; the house looked more like  a shack.

The yard was enclosed with a short wooden fence that was missing a few  planks and looked like it was slowly being pulled apart by blackberry  bushes. Where there had once been grass, now only dandelions grew. Moss  covered the roof and gutters and the ground was covered in worm-eaten  apples from one lone tree. She looked down into the cat’s round, red  eyes, and felt a tinge of guilt. “Can’t blame you for trying to run  away,” she said, giving Puss one more scratch around the collar. “But  maybe wait until you’re a bit bigger, alright? It’s a big, scary  world out there. And you never know when you’re going to run into an  ogre.”

Sighing, she trudged up the walkway, kicking a few stray apples out of  her path. Before knocking on the door, Serena checked the little  mailbox attached to the wall, hoping that perhaps she’d gotten the  wrong house and Puss really belonged in that cute yellow one with white  shutters across the street. Serena’s breath snagged when she read the  little painted sign above the mailbox, not because of the numbers  (which still matched Puss’s collar), but because of the name she read  there.

“Grimm, J.?” she whispered to herself, looking down at Puss in Boots,  who seemed to be watching her with a mischievous twinkle in his eyes.  “That’s cool. I guess your name originates from more than just your  little white feet,” Serena murmured, slowly raising her hand and  knocking.

She could hear a creaking inside as light footsteps padded toward the  door. She heard the clunk of the deadbolt and then the door opened a  few inches, a gold chain attached to the doorframe keeping it from  opening farther. An old man barely taller than Serena stood on the  other side, looking down at her with dark brown, almost black, eyes,  one of which he held a single thick lens to, magnifying the eye that  peered at her.

Puss meowed once and then began to purr loudly, nuzzling Serena’s  neck.

“Erm, hi. I think….” Serena said hesitantly, “I found this cat and ….”

The man harrumphed and the door closed. Serena could hear the clinking  of the chain, before the door opened again and the man stepped aside  with a sweep of his arm, which seemed more a force of habit than  welcoming.

“Guess you’ll be wanting to come in for tea.”

“Um, no, that’s okay, really,” Serena said obligingly, and yet her  feet carried her into the small living room anyway. “I just want to  return your cat and I’ll be on my way. Before it gets dark,” she  added hastily, jumping when the door slammed and the man bustled over  to an old-fashioned cooking stove that sat in the corner, piled high  with dirty cast iron skillets. He cleared the clutter and filled a  copper teapot with water from an equally dirty-looking faucet, setting  it on top of the burner.

Shifting uncomfortably on her feet, Serena set Puss down on the carpet.  The cat meowed and looked up at her, nodding slightly as if grateful,  and the action seemed so strangely human that it gave Serena goose  bumps. She took a moment to survey the room. It took up almost the  entire house, it seemed, with only one open door leading off into a  back room, which she assumed was a bedroom. Furniture was sparse, only  a couple of near-empty bookshelves and a writing desk that contained  stacks of books so high they probably once filled the barren shelves. A  round rug covered most of the wooden floor, looking as if it had never  been vacuumed, and so shredded that she guessed Puss had used it many  times to test out his young claws. There were no pictures on the walls  or curtains on the windows, and no tables or chairs except for the one  chair that sat before the desk. She guessed that the old man ate his  meals with his books.

Then the man began speaking and she started nervously.

“He’s always bringing home young, idealistic things like you, you  know. Thinks he’s helping.”

Pursing her lips, Serena stepped back toward the door and folded her  hands behind her back. “Thanks for your hospitality, but I think I’ll  just….”

The man sighed, ignoring her, and shifted through a shoebox full of  little packets. Serena guessed they were teabags. “Just that ever  since we came back, he’s seemed awfully lonely. I offered to send him  home, but I think he feels some sort of obligation to me. Always trying  to find one more guardian, one more princess, one more sorcerer.” He  paused and looked up, holding the monocle up to his eye again as he  looked at her. “He doesn’t seem to get that there just aren’t  princes or princesses or magicians or guardians here. There isn’t much  of anything here.”

Puss meowed and Serena was surprised to find him right at her ankles,  looking up at her with those wide red eyes. She found herself feeling  sympathetic toward this old man all alone with just his books and his  cat, but she tried to shake the feeling off, believing that most  hermits preferred it that way.

He was a nice looking man, though, with a much cleaner appearance than  his dwelling. He wore brown tweed trousers (that had probably never  seen an iron) held up by gold-buckled suspenders, and a white shirt  that buttoned to his collarbone. Serena briefly wondered if he had  grandkids, or kids at all. Remembering the name on the mailbox, she  wondered if he ever read fairy tales to them.

The teakettle whistled and the man busied himself pouring the steaming  water into two little porcelain cups. He was balding on top of his  head, Serena noticed, and his single eyepiece dangled from his collar,  ready to be used at his convenience. When he held one of the cups  toward her, she took it and held it but didn’t drink.

“Thank you, but I really should get going.”

The man was holding up the little eyeglass now, looking at her again,  almost suspiciously. “There’s something about this one, though,” he  murmured, then frowned and spoke louder, “You don’t know why he  brought you here, do you?”

“Puss in Boots?” Serena squeaked. “Actually it was me who brought— ”

“Have you ever imagined what it would be like to be stuck in a fairy  tale?”

Serena blinked, her palms sweating. Licking her lips, she shakily  nodded her head. “Every day of my life,” she whispered truthfully.

The man smiled and turned away, his friendly countenance restored.  “Yes,” he said. “Me too.” Chuckling, he hobbled over to the single  chair and collapsed into it, seeming a hundred years old in the dark  room. “But I was once, actually. A grand tale. A world of grand tales. ” Serena watched as his dark eyes gazed up at the bare window, staring  somewhere far away and long ago. He was entranced and she was hesitant  to break the spell that had befallen him so suddenly, though the  shadows in the room told her she should have already started home. She  set her untouched tea down on an empty shelf.

“Everything there was full of color and song and life. Every damsel  was beautiful. Every lad was courageous. There are days when I would  give anything to go back there, you know. But it can’t be.” He  returned his eyes to Serena, startling her slightly; she’d thought he ’d forgotten she was even standing there. “I had to leave, you see. I  had to leave in order to protect the stories. It was the only way. If I  were to go back, everything would be in danger, and then… there would  be no more tales.” He trailed off, leaving Serena to fidget  uncomfortably.

“Sir, it’s getting dark, and I need to get home. My mom will be  worried.”

He nodded, his lips curving, but his next words didn’t acknowledge her  polite plea. “I would so like to know what’s happening in that world,  though. Perhaps… perhaps you would go for me? And then come back and  tell me everything? Just… so I could know, one more time. I’ll even  write you a story, if you’d like.”

Serena wanted to tell him she had no idea what he was talking about.  She wanted to tell him he was delusional. She wanted to ask if she  could help him find his medication. But she smiled as kindly as she  could, remembering how her mother had always taught her to be kind to  the elderly, and to listen to them because they had more to tell than  anyone else.

She was beginning to think that this man had nothing to tell worth  listening to, but she didn’t say that, either, even in her own head.

“Sure,” she said, finally. “But some other time, okay? When it’s  not so late.” She wasn’t really sure that she would ever be returning  to this little hovel, even as she was saying that she would. She  figured that the man would forget her by tomorrow morning anyway. She  felt Puss purring against her leg and wondered if the little kitten  would forget her, too.

The man chuckled quietly and held up his eyeglass to look at her one  last time. “You’re familiar with all the fairy tales, I take it. Puss  only brings home the girls who know all about them already. Or maybe… ” He paused and leaned toward her, squinting with speculation. “Maybe  you’re that one after all…. Has it been sixteen years already?”

“I have to go,” Serena whispered, her heart beginning to pound.

“Yes, go, child. You’re a good girl. You’ll be fine. Don’t stay  away too long, all right? Don’t stay away too long.”

Nodding and with a sigh of relief that made her feel slightly ashamed,  Serena reached for the doorknob. She almost felt like she should curtsy  to the man before she left, or give him some sort of promise of  returning, or at least a decent goodbye, but she was feeling too  grateful to be leaving his presence. So grateful that she left the  house too briskly, too rudely, opening the door with a great intake of  air and letting it slam behind her just as the oddest feeling overcame  her.

The feeling of being on a rollercoaster at the crest of a hill and  plummeting while your stomach jumps up into your throat.

She squealed and backed up against the door, throwing her arm over her  eyes as a bright light invaded them. She expected it to disappear, like  lightning or the bright flicker of a light bulb right before it burns  out, but the light didn’t go away.

Squinting, Serena removed her arm.

It was sunny.

It was mid-day summer sunny.

But that was not the fact that had Serena suddenly trembling.

She was no longer on Thornrose Lane.

She wasn’t even in a city. Or a town, for that matter.

The yard of sticker bushes and dandelions and the rotting fence were  gone. Only the porch remained seemingly unchanged. Now, stretching out  before her in every direction as far as she could see, were farmlands  full of golden stalks that grew taller than she was. It looked like  wheat, though the only wheat she’d ever seen was in a picture on a  cereal box. The sky above was pale blue without a cloud in sight and  the sun directly overhead signaled high noon. That blue soon became the  only color Serena could see besides the golden yellow of the field. The  land was flat, barren, and lonely, with only the tall, whimsical stalks  of gold to decorate the landscape.

Serena gulped, her heart pounding furiously and sweat beading up on her  forehead. Reaching her hand along the wooden door, she sought out the  doorknob, closed her eyes, and turned.

But the knob didn’t move. The door was locked.
Chapter 2: Into the Castle

On the third day the messenger returned and said, “I have not been
able to find a single new name, but when I was approaching a high
mountain in the corner of the woods, I saw a little house.”
from Rumpelstiltskin

Serena turned around to stare at the door, unable to believe that the  old man had locked her out. Raising her hand, she knocked hard on the  wood, anxiety gripping her. A moment later, when no sound came from  inside the house and she was about ready to go hunting for an axe (not  that she thought she would find one), something made her pause.  Frowning, she stepped back to the edge of the porch, looking at the  shack, and noticed that, like the world around it, the shack had  changed as well. While it still held many similarities to the little  hovel on Thornrose Lane, this house appeared to have been built from  unpainted scrap wood, and its short chimney was now on the right side,  not the left. Walking to the edge of the house, she noted a stack of  fire kindling against the outside wall. A few dark windows showed signs  of makeshift draperies, possibly towels, whereas the other house had  had nothing. A water well stuck out of the ground, just to the side of  a dusty dirt road that meandered away from the porch, hiding behind the  rows of wheat.

Serena brushed forward, taking a moment to peer into the nearest  window, but it was caked with soot and only a tiny gap appeared between  the ledge and the curtain for her to see through. She thought she made  out the tops of a few tables from where she stood. Confused, and  immensely curious, she walked back to the door again, pausing only at  the wooden mailbox attached to the side. She squinted at the faded  lettering that no longer read “Grimm, J.,” but, rather, “Grimm, W.”

“No way,” she breathed. With a deep breath, Serena raised her fist  and knocked soundly again, and again was met with silence as she  listened for footsteps within. Sighing in agitation, she turned away  with a toss of her hair and fell sulkily against the door.

“Okay, just stay calm,” she muttered. “First we have to figure out  where we are and find the nearest bus stop. And a phone. We’ll call  Mom and get her credit card number to purchase a ticket and…”

The door opened and she screamed and jumped away.

“What do you want?” a gruff voice stormed from behind her.

Spinning around, Serena came face to face with an old man, but not the  same old man that had been in the tiny house on Thornrose Lane. Though  they looked like they could have been brothers. This man had the same  big nose and squat figure and balding head, but his build was heavier  and his clothes looked like they needed to be sorely mended.

His dark eyes swept over Serena with an air of contempt and he snorted  before Serena could get out a word. “Did that damn cat bring home  another one?” he spat bitterly, then muttered to himself, “Never  should have written him. More trouble than he’s worth.” Straightening  his shoulders, he looked Serena squarely in the eye, but she found that  she still couldn’t stop gaping at him despite the look of disdain he  was giving her. “Now you listen up before you come prattling around my  door again. I don’t have time for lunatics and daydreamers. I don’t  care how pretty or sweet you think you are. I know your type and you’ re all the same selfish, jealous little girls that you were two hundred  years ago. Now I don’t know what you’ve heard or what you think you  know about fairy godmothers and evil stepmothers and—” he paused and  snorted bitterly, “Prince Charmings! But whatever you’re looking for,  you aren’t going to find it by prowling around my door. I don’t need  your help. Don’t want your help. Now get lost!” he yelled, and  slammed the door on her.

Serena heard his heavy footsteps plodding away and felt her shock  slowly turn into irritation. “That’s the problem! I am lost!” she  screamed. Then she stood seething and wondering if he would come back  if she knocked again, but she doubted it. The silence manifested itself  as a growl within the girl’s throat. Marching forward, she kicked the  base of the door hard with her foot. “Well, I hope you have the lonely  life you obviously want, old man!” Furiously, she stomped off the  porch. “You could at least point me toward a bus stop.” She noticed a  light flicker inside the house and, all concerns for personal privacy  gone, placed both hands on a windowsill and pulled her head up to look  inside.

The glass was just as filthy as all the others, making her view silt- covered and dark, but the curtain was much shorter than the one in the  front window. With wide eyes Serena looked at a room stacked high with  books, papers, and journals of all sizes. A small desk in the corner  held feather pens and inkbottles. On the other side of the room was a  plain bed with crumpled, folded, and creased papers spread out over  every inch of the firm-looking mattress. Many of the notes had slipped  onto the wooden floor.

It took a moment for Serena to notice the man as he stooped before one  bookshelf, flipping through a thick book, his back to the window.  Serena squinted, watching his hunched shoulders rise and fall with an  exaggerated sigh. He slammed the text shut, ignoring a cloud of dust as  it flew into his face, and slowly slid the book onto the shelf, but,  try as she might, Serena could not make out the gold lettering on the  side.

Then the man turned to something hanging on the far wall that Serena  hadn’t noticed before. Squinting, she realized it was a mirror, but  the man’s reflection was dark and hazy as he peered into it with angry  eyes. Serena watched, holding her breath, and saw the image in the  glass warp like a funhouse mirror and turn to inky black before two  faint lights appeared as if very far away. But as they grew larger and  brighter, they took on the distinctive shape of two reddish-gold eyes  burning with restrained fury.

Then the man spun around toward Serena.

A startled squeal escaped her lips as Serena jumped back, collapsing to  the ground with a thud. Her heart pounded at her ribs. She held still,  listening, half-expecting the old man to come charging out of the house  with a rifle in hand. And yet, no sound came from inside the one-room  shack. With a gulp and exhalation of breath, Serena let her eyes wander  to the perfect blue sky above. However, despite the warmth of the sun  that Serena could feel against her face, there was a crisp autumn wind  that caused the fields to whisper to each other. When her heartbeat had  slowed and it was obvious that the old man wasn’t going to come out  and shoot her after all, Serena pursed her lips together and lifted  herself to look through the window again.

She first noticed the mirror, now looking like nothing more than a  regular old mirror reflecting the dingy room. The papers that had  previously been on the bed were scattered over the floor, making room  for the man’s crooked form to lie, without any blankets or pillows, on  the hard mattress. It didn’t look like he would be inclined to move  any time soon.

Shaking her head, Serena backed away, letting her hands fall to her  sides, thinking she must have imagined the terrifying eyes, like embers  in the dark glass. Her previous anger at the man melted away, replaced  by something very close to pity. The man was obviously lonely and she  couldn’t help but wonder how long he had lived alone in this little  shack, with nothing but his books and papers to keep him company.  Unlike the old man on Thornrose Lane, this one didn’t even have a cat  for a companion. A sympathetic sigh escaped the girl and just as she  found herself considering knocking on his door again and extending an  offer of friendship, a great clatter arose far off in the wheat fields.  Her interest piqued, her concern for the man momentarily forgotten,  Serena turned toward the commotion and hurried toward it.

As she trotted along the road that had curved out of view, listening to  the clatter growing louder in the still autumn air, she began to make  out the heads of moving, bustling people off in the distance, steadily  coming toward her. Their feet trampled loudly on the ground, their  voices carried harshly through the serene farmland. It wasn’t long  before Serena reached the end of her own little path where it met with  a larger road, the dirt colliding with gravel. There she waited for the  mob that was sure to pass her by, watching curiously as their heads  bobbed barely in eyesight.

The first person to round the nearest corner, however, was not one  Serena had expected. The man stood at a mere three feet tall and had  been hidden completely behind the wheat until that moment.

Normally she would not have been gawking so shamelessly, but never  before had Serena seen such a peculiar looking man. He had a sharp  pointed nose and chubby cheeks, and his head, though mostly bald, had  small tufts of red hair around the ears. Dressed in what could have  been considered fine clothes in the Middle Ages, he wore a green velvet  tunic and brown and white striped leggings. He seemed to enjoy showing  off his grand attire—though not so much the clothes he wore, Serena  thought, but rather the jewelry that accompanied it. A fine gold chain  hung around his neck, so long it dangled to his belly, and a large  emerald ring sat on his right hand, which he made sure to hold proudly  in front of his chest, waving from time to time so that the sunlight  caught in the gem and sent spots of green glittering along the road  before him.

Immediately behind the dwarf swarmed six humans, all of which carried  miniature scrolls of paper and short feather pens, each one shouting  out questions in hopes that the midget would choose to answer them.

“Have you ever told anybody your true name?”

“Do you plan on seeking custody rights of the child?”

“How was it that you first made the princess’s acquaintance?”

“Is it true that you spun the straw into gold, not the princess?”

“Have you given the princess any hints as to your true name?”

“Would you say that you had a troubled childhood?”

However, they were all completely ignored as the little man continued  on up the road in his quick-paced stride, a mischievous, sardonic smile  on his thin lips.

Following the reporters (as Serena assumed they must be) was an even  larger group of people. About twenty or so plainly dressed men and  women bustled along in the journalists’ wake, all with worried looks  upon their faces as they tried desperately to keep up with the parade.  They did not talk, but looked frightened and desperate as they searched  for glimpses of the little man in front.

“Excuse me?” Serena asked to one middle-aged woman who walked past  her, clutching onto the hand of her husband.

They made eye contact, the woman taking a startled breath at being  addressed. “Yes?”

Seeing that the couple would not stop walking to speak with her, Serena  had to jog to keep up, while attempting to keep from being pushed into  the wheat at the same time. “What’s going on? Who is that man?”

The lady shook her head, turning away. “He is a very bad man,” she  spoke with a tone of disgust.

“Why? What did he do?”

The woman broke into sobs and her husband put an arm over her shoulders  and looked at Serena with a mixture of irritation and surprise. “Don’ t you know?”

Feeling nervous beneath his gaze, Serena shrugged and answered, “I’m  not really from around here.”

Accepting the excuse, the man nodded soberly. “That man has made an  evil plot against the first prince and his princess. He now has tricked  them into a bargain in which the princess must give him her newborn  child!”

Raising an eyebrow in recognition, with an awkward sinking feeling in  her stomach, Serena turned toward the front of the crowd and wet her  lips. “You know, maybe I have heard of him after all. Let me guess,  the princess has to guess his name in order to keep her child?”

“Exactly! And nobody knows what it could be!” the woman screeched  angrily, throwing her hands into the air.

“He won’t tell a soul,” the man added.

Serena felt a little dizzy and rubbed a finger against a temple. “This  can’t be happening.”

“And now he’s on his way to the castle, for the final stage of his  cruel plan. Can you imagine? That poor, defenseless child, being taken  by such a heartless fiend!”

“What castle?”

“Why—that one!” the woman exclaimed, gesturing forward.

Serena looked up and gasped. She couldn’t help but stop in the middle  of the road, her blue eyes taking a moment to adjust to the sight of an  enormous stone castle not far ahead. It consisted of a beautiful glass  dome, four tall pointed towers at its corners, and rows upon rows of  glittering windows of all colors. Surrounding the castle stood a large  but simple town that they were fast approaching. A dark and beautiful  forest grew on one side, more farmlands spread out to the other, and a  range of snow-capped mountains lurked far to her left.

“Oh. That castle,” she whispered to herself, taking the time to let  the vision set in, before skipping ahead once more to reach the crowd  before they disappeared into the town streets.

Walking with the group behind the reporters (who were slowly becoming  frustrated with the lack of information the small man would part with),  Serena looked around the city with wide eyes. Windows and doors opened  as they passed, men of all ages peering outside to see the commotion.  Many appeared with curiosity, until they would gasp in fear and worry  and duck back inside. Frowning, Serena crept up close to the man and  his wife again.

“I’m sorry to interrupt, again,” she began. “But is it just me—or  are there no women here?”

“There won’t be any women in the streets of this city today,”  explained the woman. “All the immediate noblewomen of the kingdom are  preparing for tonight’s ball.”

“A ball that probably won’t happen! Not now that he’s here!” her  husband fumed.

“Don’t talk that way!” the lady hissed, and they began to bicker  quietly between themselves.

Serena fell back again in the group, trying to take in the scenery of  the city. All of the houses, painted in muted hues of blue, yellow, and  green, were lined up side by side, with hardly a gap between them. Most  houses stood two to three stories in height. Every window was adorned  with a box of late summer flowers and white draperies behind the clean  glass. Serena noticed that the stony road had changed to cobblestone at  the entrance to the town.

Up ahead, in a large courtyard before the entrance to the castle, a  great clock tower soared high above the town’s roofs. Carved of deep  red wood and with a face made of mirrored glass and hands of gold and  silver, the clock stood out like a jewel in the quaint town.

The crowd circled around the clock tower and Serena forced herself to  keep up with them, still trying to watch the great hands counting off  the seconds. Even from looking at the clock from way below in the  courtyard, she judged that the minute hand must have been as long as  her body.

“Oh!” Gasping, Serena pulled back upon having run face-first into the  man’s back. Looking up, she could hear a quarrel just ahead. They had  already come to the large wooden gate that opened into the castle  courtyards. Before the crowd there hovered two finely dressed guards  bedecked in metal armor from head to foot, each holding out a tall  spear to bar the dwarf’s passage.

“You may not pass!” one yelled from within a steel helmet.

“I will do as I please,” the midget wheezed in a cranky voice.  Creeping around to the side of the group, Serena desperately sought a  better view.

Slowly, the dwarf raised his right hand, straight and outstretched  before his face, and each guard flew backwards, hitting the wooden gate  painfully behind them. With a thud and clang, they both slumped over,  motionless. The crowd and reporters gasped and cowered backward.

Without moving his hand, the short man took a few steps forward and the  wooden doors began to creak and rumble, slowly opening to either side.

Satisfied, the dwarf tossed his shoulders back and proceeded.

The rest of the followers, journalists and citizens alike, stood and  stared in awe, many trembling with fear.

“Oh . . . is there no one that can save us from his cruelty?” one  elderly woman muttered faintly, as the doors began to rattle and close  again.

Serena, overcome with curiosity, jumped forward, dodging past the  reporters, and lunged between the doors before they could close. She  tumbled out on the other side, landing with a grunt on a stone walkway.  When she looked up she expected to see a pack of burly guards pointing  sharp objects in her direction, but instead found that there was no one  around. No guards, no dwarfs, no townspeople. Sitting up, Serena dusted  off her hands, murmuring, “I’m starting to feel like Alice in  Wonderland.”

Hoping that she wouldn’t be met with a guillotine-happy queen, she  took a moment to survey the courtyard. The area within the stone wall  was paved with black and white marble with purple clovers blooming in  the cracks between each stone. The walls were covered with vines of  ivy, though even those were often hidden behind a row of tall bushes,  sculpted into the shapes of chess pieces. The courtyard continued in  both directions, eventually rolling around either side of the castle.

A single door stood in front of Serena, an ornately carved redwood door  that rose a massive twelve feet high, with glittering stained glass  windows on either side. Standing, Serena moved forward, listening to  her tennis shoes thud against the path. Placing both hands on the door,  she pushed and it swung open, easy and soundless.

It was darker inside the castle, though not by much. Light from the  colorful windows pooled on the floor and the broad hallway had been lit  by large sconces that lined the walls, casting orange flickering light  from floor to ceiling. The floor was laid out like a black and white  checkerboard, with a line of narrow, ornate carpets stretching straight  down the center. A series of doors lined each wall, with a few gigantic  paintings hung in between the light fixtures.

Serena took a few hesitant steps into the hallway. “Shouldn’t there  be knights and nobles and royalty walking around? Or at least maids and  butlers?” she muttered. “I suppose it’s a good thing, though, that I  haven’t run into anyone yet. They would probably have me arrested for  trespassing, or worse.” Unconsciously, she smoothed her skirt down  around her legs.

A commotion down the hallway caught her ear. With a renewed sense of  curiosity, Serena quickened her steps and jogged toward the noise, as  quietly as she could. She soon came to a large room where many people  stood, silently watching the events playing up near the front. Looking  around, Serena could see that the majority of the occupants were  dressed plainly, the women in simple black cotton dresses and the men  in black and white tunics, and Serena wondered if these were the  illusive servants of the castle.

Pushing her way through the crowd, she could hear a woman’s voice  calling out seemingly meaningless sounds and syllables, before a loud,  nasal tone would return with one word.

“No!”

Serena soon found herself standing near the front of the audience. Two  tall chairs sitting high on a central platform, upholstered in red and  trimmed with gold fringe, buttons, and ribbons, suggested that she had  found the castle’s throne room. The platform was carpeted, unlike the  rest of the tiled room, with a deep red broadloom. The surrounding  walls were high, rising up toward the sky to be met with a circular  stained-glass dome that allowed the sunlight to filter through in  colorful pillars and splash against the floor.

Seated in the thrones was an elderly couple. They were richly dressed  in fine robes. The woman had long, thick black hair and sat stiffly in  a tight fitting bodice, though her yellow skirt billowed extravagantly  down past her ankles. Her right hand was balled into a fist on her lap,  the other holding onto the edge of a pink baby cradle that sat between  the two thrones. The man, his shock of white hair nearly as long as the  woman’s and held down by a thick gold crown that had the emblem of a  crescent moon displayed prominently on top, sat motionless with his  arms rested on those of the chair. His face, that was just beginning to  show wrinkles in his age, was drawn into a horribly angry frown.  Flanking the king and queen stood two young men, each looking to be in  their late teens or early twenties, each scowling.

Standing before was a handsome young man who could not have been past  his mid-twenties, though his long hair was already silvery-white like  that of the king, and a pretty blonde-haired girl beside him. The girl  appeared both terrified and furious, both hands clutched together over  her chest, her blue eyes pleading as she stared at a familiar, child- sized man.

“Dex?” she asked, wringing her hands.

“No.”

“Jack?”

“No.”

“Beelzebub?”

“No.”

“Loop? Jared? Abifellowman?”

“No. No. No.” The short man cackled evilly. “Any more guesses, Your  Highness?” he taunted, tugging on a patch of orange hair.

The lady stomped her foot in irritation. “But I’ve tried every name  in the kingdom!”

“And none have been mine!” The dwarf raised both of his arms. “Now  give me your firstborn child, just as you should have three nights ago  on the day of her birth. You have no other choice.”

“Stop this!” the young silver-haired man yelled, stepping between the  girl and the dwarf. “That is enough! You may not take our daughter  from us. I command you to leave, you fiend! Stop terrorizing my wife  and family!”

“She made a bargain with me! In return for spinning straw into gold  and saving her life, as well as making her your wife, I become the  owner of her firstborn child. That child!” he screeched, pointing  toward the cradle. As if in response, a shrill crying erupted from the  small bed, and the queen lifted the baby to hold her tight against her  chest.

“You are not the owner of that child. That child is mine! She is my  blood!” the man yelled hysterically.

The intruder only shook his head. “You are gravely mistaken. She  belongs to me now. Move aside!”

“Guards! Arrest that man!” the king cried, standing from his throne.  His face was flushed red as he glared at the midget. “Today was to be  a day of celebration; a feast and a ball not only to honor the  christening of my granddaughter, but also to serve as an engagement  ceremony for my son. You will not ruin this day! I will see you hung  first!”

The short man only shook his head, a large grin on his face. “You all  believe that you can outwit me?” He laughed as two guards rushed  forward, grabbing him by the arms and lifting him into the air. But the  villain’s free hands spread out wide, his fingers stretching away from  his palms, and instantaneously the guards let go of their capture and  went flying backward, landing with a clatter against the floor. “I can  have all of you dead as I please! Now, give me the child!”

The queen held the baby protectively against her bosom, her eyes  sparkling with unshed tears. “Is there nothing we can do?” she  whispered to her husband.

His frustration growing, the dwarf walked forward until he stood on the  platform, only a few feet from the baby’s parents. “Give me that  child,” he hissed, his eyes staring at the frightened young woman as  she cowered behind her husband.

“You’re the one who’s gravely mistaken,” Serena declared, stepping  away from the audience. “You will not have that child, sure as your  name is Rumpelstiltskin!”
Chapter 3: Masquerade
The Wise Women's gifts were all fulfilled on the girl,
for she was so beautiful, well behaved, friendly, and intelligent
that everyone who saw her had to love her.
from Brier Rose

The evil dwarf whirled around, his eyes searching the crowd. Serena  fearlessly stepped out in front of the audience, her hands clenched at  her sides.

“Your name is Rumpelstiltskin!” she repeated.

His jaw dropped, his face flushing a bright red. “You . . . you . . . ” he stuttered, his eyes burning furiously.

“You cannot have that child,” Serena said firmly, her sense of  justice giving her a courage she was not altogether used to. “She will  stay with her rightful parents, where she belongs.”

“You spied on me!” he began to cry hysterically. “The birds told  you! The wind told you! The devil himself told you!”

“Leave now, Rumpelstiltskin!” Serena continued, ignoring his cries.

“Rumpelstiltskin . . . Rumpelstiltskin . . . Rumpelstiltskin . . .  Stop saying that name!” he cried, covering his ears and shaking with  madness, chanting the name over and over again.

The young blonde woman stepped out from behind her husband, her eyes  filled with renewed courage. “Yes. Leave now, Rumpelstiltskin.”

An anguish-filled screech echoed throughout the room, tearing through  the walls as Rumpelstiltskin began to hop up and down, stomping in  anger. “I hate you! I hate you all!” The ground rumbled and shook as  he screamed, tearing at his hair and large, red ears, before he  suddenly stomped so hard that one leg broke through the tiled floor.  Serena squealed and the audience stepped back in fear as the world  shook and rattled beneath them. Enraged, Rumpelstiltskin grabbed hold  of his ears and ripped himself in two just as the earth beneath him  opened up and he fell into the crevice, his screams drowned out by the  rushing, crumbling land as it glued itself back together just as fast  as it had opened.

There was a silence in which no one moved or breathed. A small, almost  undetectable crack in the black and white tiles was the only sign that  the dwarf had been there at all.

“And he was never heard from again,” Serena whispered.

The silence of the room was broken by the whimpering of an infant  child, blissfully ignorant of her own near doom. The royal family  slowly moved their eyes from the empty spot in the middle of the room  to the girl with the strange clothes and hairstyle before them.

Suddenly, the child’s mother straightened her back, her shoulders  thrusting backward in a gathering of strength, before she rushed  forward, lifting her skirt as she jogged toward Serena. With a small  sob, she fell to her knees and took both of Serena’s hands into her  own and showered them with kisses.

Serena shuffled uncomfortably.

“Thank you! Thank you so much! You saved my daughter’s life!”

“It . . . it was nothing . . . really,” Serena muttered, trying to  pull away.

The woman was joined by her husband, who laid a calming hand on his  wife’s shoulder, silently prompting her to stand. With a tear-streaked  face, she did so, though still holding tightly onto Serena’s hands.  The prince bowed, a smile creasing his face and lighting a twinkle in  his pale blue eyes.

“Excuse my wife’s forwardness, but you have done a great thing for  her, for myself, and for my kingdom,” he said, prying the woman’s  hands off of Serena. “Please, what is your name, and what can we do to  repay you?”

Serena pursed her lips together. “My name is Serena, and there isn’t  anything that I want. I’m glad that I could help.”

“Nonsense!” the king called from his platform. “You have saved my  kingdom from total destruction. Tonight you shall be the guest of honor  at our royal masquerade! Yet another reason to celebrate!”

The servants burst into applause, but Serena held up her hands in  protest. “I really think that total destruction might be a bit over  exaggerated . . .”

“But we won’t have a ball at this rate,” the king continued,  ignoring her. “Go on, get to work, all of you! There are preparations  to be made!” The king waved his tall staff in the air and all of the  occupants of the room darted out into the castle, many hustling toward  the front hallway, while still others found their way through curtained  doorways and passages along the walls.

Serena chewed on her lip, watching as the room was all but deserted.

“I am Prince Malachite,” said the young man before her, “the eldest  prince of Aysel Kingdom, and this is my wife, Princess Mina. Please,  come meet my family.” Serena allowed herself to be led to the stage,  where Malachite continued, “Lady Serena, meet my father and mother,  King Artemis and Queen Luna of Aysel.”

Unsure, Serena curtsied, quite awkwardly, to each of them. “Um… very  pleased to meet…”

“The pleasure is all ours, pretty girl!” King Artemis exclaimed,  jumping from his throne and wrapping his arms around her in an enormous  hug. Meanwhile, the queen carefully handed the baby girl over to  Princess Mina, watching her coo quietly in her mother’s loving arms  before turning to a dazed Serena. Peeling her husband away, the queen  kissed Serena on both cheeks, smiling kindly.

“You may stay as long as you like. If you wish, I will give you one of  my sons to be your husband, a gift of our gratitude.”

Serena’s eyes widened, her face flushing pink. “Er . . . that won’t  be necessary, Your Majesty. But thanks, and all.”

“Speaking of my brothers,” Prince Malachite continued, threading his  arm through Serena’s, “this is Prince Nephlite, the second born.” He  gestured to a tall, muscled man whose auburn hair fell becomingly into  ocean blue eyes as he smiled gratefully at Serena. She found herself  trying to loosen the knot in her throat. “And the fourth son, Prince  Jadeite.” Standing beside the other throne was a boy exactly opposite  of his older brother, with a willowy figure, pale yellow hair, and fair  skin. He stood tall, but smiled shyly at Serena whose heart continued  to beat faster by the moment, the queen’s offer becoming more and more  temping.

“Sadly, two of my sons are gone for the weekend,” Queen Luna informed  her, trading smiles between the three princes. “The middle and  youngest both hate dancing, and avoid attending any such masquerades as  those that we will be holding tonight, for fear that they would be  forced to flatter any young ladies from the neighboring kingdoms. They ’re out hunting, though I do hope that they will return soon as to  meet your acquaintance, Lady Serena.”

Grinning, Serena nodded. “Thank you. I appreciate your hospitality.”  She turned to face Mina and the baby girl. “And who is this?” she  asked sweetly, tickling the infant.

Mina smiled lovingly down on her daughter. “This is Princess Cytherea. ” She hugged her daughter even closer. “She is unknowingly indebted  to you as well.”

With a shake of her head, Serena looked away. “Please, I don’t want  to be repaid for anything. Knowing that I helped this child is plenty  thanks for me.”

“What a noble gesture!” the king cried. “But it has already been  decided; you are to attend the engagement masquerade this evening.  Though certainly not in those clothes,” he commented, eyeing her  school uniform suspiciously. “Servants!” He clapped his hands twice  and four young women appeared from behind a hanging curtain. “Take  this girl to our nicest suite and have her cleaned and fitted for the  ball this evening. I will have an escort sent to your room at seven o’ clock. If there is anything you need or would like, my servants will be  happy to assist you.”

Before she could speak, Serena found herself being swept away by two of  the young ladies, their hands picking at her clothes and hair before  they had even reached the hidden doorway.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena sighed contentedly, sinking into the steaming bath water until  the surface reached her temples. Tilting her head back, she ran her  hands through her hair, feeling it slip through her fingers to float  back to the surface. With a deep breath she dunked her head back into  the tub, blowing out a few bubbles before emerging again and sitting up  with a splash. She set her arms up on the sides of the tub, opening her  eyes to look around the room.

It was the most elegant bedroom she had ever known. The walls were  painted a deep forest green, the tapestries were done up in thick  cream-colored velvet, and the bed (which she could not see from her  bathing alcove) was nearly twice the size of her own queen-size bed at  home, covered in ivory and gold blankets, pillows, and throws. Plush,  colorful carpets accented the cedar floors, defining different parts of  the room, from the sleeping area to the dressing parlor to her cozy  bathroom.

The bathing room, though not closed off from the rest of the quarters,  was nicely tucked away around a corner, allowing privacy from the maids  she could hear puttering around the parlor. Though they had been  relentless in combing her hair and stripping her of her clothes, Serena  had finally convinced the women to leave her be after preparing her  bath. At first they had stubbornly refused, with the intent of bathing  her themselves, until she had all but screamed at them to go away—at  which they finally scurried off in fright. Now they were undoubtedly  making themselves busy by setting out her dress for the evening.

She couldn’t help but grin foolishly.

She’d never had attendants. Nor had she bathed in an antique porcelain  tub. Nor had she ever met a king, a queen, or an entire set of princes.  Nor had she ever met a fictional, fairy-tale man. Why would she have?  She was only a normal teenager who dreamt about normal teenage stuff.  Closing her eyes, she imagined she was dreaming now and that when she  opened her eyes she would be warped back to reality. She would be  scolded by her teachers for falling asleep during a lecture.

But when she opened her eyes again, she was still there, lounging in  the perfectly warm porcelain bathtub, which seemed to be, judging by  the scent, more lavender oil than water. It made her skin feel oily,  but smooth and refreshed all the same, so she didn’t mind. It was  better than a history lesson, in any case.

She took a moment to look out the grand window that stretched from  floor to ceiling. The glass was naturally fogged so that no one could  see in, but the sunlight could still filter across the room. The vague  shapes of the castle’s towers and green hills filled the view to the  horizon where it was met with opaque blue skies.

“So you’re the girl?”

Serena turned to the small voice, expecting to see one of the maids  peeking around the corner into her sanctuary. Instead, her eyes met  with the sight of a six-inch-tall girl with purple dragonfly wings  hovering a foot over the bath water.

Serena screamed, her relaxed muscles tensing as she sat up, splashing a  great deal of water on the floor as she did so.

The creature screamed too, flying back from Serena as quickly as she  could. “Don’t do that!” she screeched. “You’ll get water on my  wings!”

Clutching her hand over her heart, Serena stared wide-eyed at the girl.  “What are you?”

One of the attendants came scurrying around the corner, her nervous  eyes looking around curiously. “Mi’lady? What has happened? Oh, hello  little one.”

The girl bowed in mid-air. “Good day.”

The servant turned back to Serena. “Mi’lady?” she asked again.

Serena glanced from the creature to the servant, before slowly shaking  her head. “Nothing. I’m fine. It’s okay,” she said shakily. The  maid looked speculative, but curtsied and went back into the main  quarters.

Regaining her breath, Serena shifted onto her knees, placing her hands  on the rim of the tub to steady herself as the tiny girl returned to  the edge of the tub and landed on a little dish that held a bar of  soap. The creature looked human in every way and had ebony hair cropped  below her ears, dark eyes, and a purple dress. She had violet,  iridescent wings sprouting out of her back and tall, pointed ears  jutting up from her shaggy hair. Even her skin glowed with a golden  tint.

Serena blinked in awe. The girl blinked back.

“What are you?” she asked again.

“A fairy, of course,” the girl answered. “You act as though you’ve  never seen one.”

“I haven’t ever seen one,” Serena confirmed, lifting a hand to tug  on one of the girl’s wings. The fairy yelped and pulled away.

“Hey! Those are sensitive, you know.”

“Oh, I’m sorry! I didn’t know.”

“Bah! Never seen a fairy? You must come from a faraway land after all. ”

Serena nodded in agreement. “Very far away. At least, I think it is.  Are fairies common around here?”

The tiny girl shrugged again, folding her arms over her chest. “We  aren’t as common as we used to be, but there’s still the occasional  fae wandering around. Fairy godmothers are becoming more popular around  the populated areas, what with more work for them to do.” She nodded,  as if to emphasize the truth of her words, and smiled impishly at  Serena. “My name is Hota. What’s yours?”

“Serena.”

Hota clasped her hands behind her back. “Well, Serena, it is a  pleasure to meet you. I suppose you’re ready for this evening’s  events?”

Serena wasn’t sure what there was to be ready for, but she smiled  anyway. “Yes, I know it will be grand and exciting!”

Hota beamed. “Yes, exciting! Excitement is key. I’m glad that you see  that.” She had suddenly become energized, and took to the air again,  twirling around enthusiastically. “I guess I’ll leave you to finish  preparing. Just make sure to eat something substantial, either before  the ball or during. You’ll need your energy. Saving stories is hard  work.”

Sitting back on her heels, Serena tilted her head to the side. “Saving  . . . stories?”

“Savings stories, yes, of course.”

Serena giggled as if it was a joke. “I didn’t know there were stories  in need of saving.”

Hota looked puzzled for a moment, her head tilting to match Serena’s  expression. “But you are the Chosen One from the faraway land? You  already helped Princess Mina. That proved it.” Seeing that Serena was  still confused, Hota sighed, shaking her head. “Never mind. Just do as  we say and you’ll be fine. And don’t dilly-dawdle!”

“Who’s ‘we’? And what responsibilities do I have?”

“No time to explain now, I have to go check on the girl to make sure  things are going as planned. Finish bathing and get dressed now—you  won’t want to be late and miss the all the drama!” With a wink, Hota  turned and fluttered off toward the main bedroom quarters.

Ever more confused, Serena reached for a towel, knowing her bath wasn’ t going to end as relaxing as it had begun.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The full-length mirror lied to her as Serena stared back at her  reflection. Jaw agape and eyes dancing in astonished delight, she  couldn’t help but feel like she was staring into a painting instead of  a mirror. A painting of a beautiful, elegant, royal princess . . . a  painting most certainly not of her.

But it was a mirror. And it was her reflection.

With a dazed look she slowly spun around, turning her head to peer over  her shoulder.

The dress that the attendants had chosen for her fit like a dream,  hugging the curves it was supposed to and flaring away from those it  wasn’t. Though simple in design, Serena still felt as though she, too,  could be royalty in that dress. The seamless silver bodice tucked just  right against her chest, making her breasts appear much larger than  they were (a task she thought could never be accomplished), while  slimming her torso without making it difficult to breathe. The back of  the silver top was open down to her waist with decorative stringed  crystals lacing it together. The sleeveless garment was accompanied by  a deep red velvet skirt that flared away from her hips, a petticoat  that made the skirt poof out and swish around her legs, and the  delightful silver shoes that one could only see when she gingerly  lifted the skirt up with one hand. She even had elbow-high gloves of  the same maroon velvet.

She turned back to see her front in the mirror again. The servants had  styled her hair into a complex basket weave, lined with silver and red  ribbons that ran into a long four-stranded braid down to her mid-back.  She didn’t have any idea how they had done it, but it had taken the  better part of an hour and now she thought she might cry when they had  to take it out. She’d never loved her hair so much—or her body, for  that matter.

In a moment of reminiscence, Serena wished Darien Shields was there.  She could only imagine the look of astonishment on his face. Even the  most popular guy at Crossroads High would have to notice her in a dress  like this. The thought made her giggle joyfully.

The four attendants, all standing around her to admire their work,  jumped together at a knock at the door. Instantly they were in motion  again, dragging Serena by her wrists to stand before the doorway,  continuously tittering together about her escort and the dance. Serena  wondered if they ever ran out of energy. They reminded her of school  children.

Within seconds they were lined up like a hallway in front of her, two  on her left and two on her right. The one farthest from Serena had her  hand on the doorknob. Serena inhaled a deep breath, lifting her chin  high and sucking in her stomach. Her mouth was suddenly dry, but she  couldn’t understand why. A part of her imagined Darien standing on the  other side of that doorway, his jaw falling down as he set his eyes  upon her.

“Mi’Lady Serena, Guest of Honor,” the attendant beside the door  said, “May I present your escort for the evening.”

Serena straightened her back nervously as the door began to open.

Please, let him be handsome . . .

The servant opened the door for all to see.

“Sir Seiya of Aysel Kingdom.”

Serena’s breath caught in her throat. He was indeed handsome.

She tried desperately to hide her gawking, for he was stunningly  gorgeous, more so even than the three princes she had met earlier that  day.

He was of towering height (close to six and a half feet, she guessed,  compared to her measly 4’11”), with tanned skin, broad shoulders, and  defined muscles that his black tunic draped casually off of. Shiny  black hair combed into a low tail fell a few inches below his  shoulders, while loose strands framed the stern features of his face.  His lips were firm and his nose long and thin. His eyes were of the  richest charcoal gray Serena had ever seen, reminding her of storm  clouds about to burst. His gaze was a haunting mixture of anger and  sadness and regret, and yet covered with a layer of apathy. Strangest  of all his features, and perhaps most fascinating, was the small tattoo  of a single black spiraling teardrop beneath his left eye.

Gulping, Serena felt suddenly very plain and dull in the dress and  hairstyle she had loved so dearly moments before. Watching the man’s  eyes, she noticed that his composure didn’t falter at all as his gaze  swept over her. In fact, it only appeared even darker, and her self- esteem dropped. She reasoned that he was used to seeing girls much more  beautiful than her and that she shouldn’t be surprised at his lack of  interest. Still, that revelation didn’t do much for her confidence.

Sir Seiya took a hand out of his pocket and stretched it out to her. “ The dance awaits us,” he said, in a tone that could only be described  as bored. His voice, on the other hand, reminded Serena of those  ‘smoky voices’ the heroes in romance novels always had.

Nodding shakily, Serena pushed her feet forward, reaching out to take  the hand he had offered her. She didn’t know what she was supposed to  say and he didn’t seem interested in anything she would say anyhow,  and so she kept quiet. But when her fingers slid into his large palm,  she felt her breath catch in surprise. His skin was as cold as ice.  Serena allowed him to draw her into the hallway before hooking his arm  with hers.

Back in the room, the maids broke into giggles and swoons just before  they shut the door behind Serena and her escort, leaving her alone in  the hallway with the mysterious man. However, before she had time to be  nervous, he had already begun to stride down the corridor with her in  tow.

At first she found it hard to keep up with him, given his long legs and  quick stride, but after she found a rhythm in her step she floated  beside him casually, if not gracefully.

“Are you . . .” she began, then stopped when her voice came out in  only a whisper. Inhaling a deep breath, she wet her mouth and started  again. “Are you a prince too?”

“No.” He sounded uninterested, but at least not angry. She had had a  feeling he may be angered by such a question, though she didn’t know  why he would.

“Oh.” She wished he would say something, anything. They kept walking  and she was glad her shoes had only small heals, not the three inches  she had originally wanted to wear but that the servants had warned her  against. “My name is Serena.”

He didn’t even nod in acknowledgment. She turned her eyes to him  patiently for a moment, then frowned and turned to admire the large  paintings hanging on the walls, lit by majestic candelabras. For a  moment Serena wished she could stop and look at each piece of art more  closely, but didn’t dare ask her escort if they could. Instead, she  made a mental note to take the time to look at them when she had a free  moment.

“Seiya’s a nice name,” she prodded. He didn’t respond, much to her  irritation, and Serena was forced to concede that pleasant conversation  would not be in the bill for the evening.

They seemed to walk for hours through the hallways of the palace,  passing by windows that looked out over the kingdom, rooms full of  nothing but sculptures and artwork, like some elite museum, and rooms  filled with shelves and shelves of books. As desperately as she tried  to remember the location of these rooms, Serena knew she would never be  able to find her way through the labyrinth of halls and staircases  again.

She eventually began to hear a blur of voices coming up from the wide  corridor. Her smile creased expectantly, forgetting the cold man at her  side as she waited to see the bustle of royalty and nobles, all excited  with their fancy clothes and lively music. Never had Serena been to a  real masquerade, and she knew that it wasn’t likely she would ever  again attend one as grand as this—one literally founded in a land of  make believe. For the night she could pretend that she was Cinderella,  or perhaps one of the twelve princesses who danced their shoes to  pieces every night. It would be a magical, splendid night, as the day  had been. And, even if he wasn’t as excited to be with her, Serena  knew she would enter the ball on the arm of one of the most handsome  men in the kingdom.

Finally, Serena began to see more guests heading toward the ball,  dressed up and chattering amongst themselves, all migrating into one  grand room succeeded by one grand room after another. Each room they  entered had more people than the last, and a gigantic doorway that was  at least ten times larger than any Serena had seen before. The doors  were framed with gold draperies and stained glass windows shared  between the adjacent rooms, and followed by a short flight of steps as  the guests swept down into the final ballroom. Serena had never  imagined she would be in such a luxurious place, and momentarily forgot  the man at her side as she let her eyes roam over every extravagant  detail.

With the final staircase spread before her, Serena looked out into the  ballroom with amazed eyes. Red plush carpet covered the floor, with the  exception of the circular dance floor in the center that sparkled like  plated gold. An orchestra was spread out over two stages to her left,  one on either side of a smaller platform with two high thrones. She  could see King Artemis and Queen Luna seated on the thrones, talking to  each other as they sipped at glasses filled with berry-colored wine.  Tables and chairs littered the floor on the opposite side of the room,  many of the banquet tables covered in treats and tasty delights that  Serena could smell even from where she stood. She suddenly realized  that she hadn’t eaten since lunch in the cafeteria, and that seemed  ages ago.

The ceilings must have been fifty feet high, and the exquisite murals  framing the stained-glass dome reminded Serena of the Sistine Chapel.  Two of the walls were draped with gold curtains and sashes and tassels,  surrounding large pieces of artwork and mirrors that made the room look  even bigger. The wall to her right had another doorway with pillars on  either side, lined with armor-suited guards. Serena could see that it  led outside, possibly to another entrance of the castle, or maybe into  some wonderfully spectacular gardens. Guests were coming in from this  entrance as well. She’d never seen so many lovely clothes.

Seiya had guided her down to the bottom of the steps and stopped one  stair short of the main floor, possibly taking the time to gawk at the  room’s décor as well—though she very much doubted that. It didn’t  seem like much could impress him.

“Oh, is this her?” an unfamiliar voice asked. Serena removed her  wandering eyes from the entrance to look at the man below her, whose  expression was much more appreciative than Seiya’s had been as he  gazed at her dress. Without knowing who he was, Serena wished that he  had been her escort instead. Her face turned pink.

The man beamed at her, reaching for her left hand as Seiya let it go  willingly and the new man kissed the back of it before gently drawing  her off of the last step. “Turn around, let me have a look at you,”  he mused. Serena giggled and did as she was told, spinning beneath his  arm. As she stopped to look at him again, she noticed with wonderment  how short he was now that she wasn’t a step above him. Indeed, he was  shorter than her!

Perhaps another dwarf, like Rumpelstiltskin? she mused, but he was  taller, and much more slender, than the dwarf had been.

Whatever or whoever he was, the man couldn’t seem to take his eyes off  of her, and that made Serena like him. A lot.

“You are quite the sight. Yes, they did a wonderful job, a wonderful  job.” He kissed her hand again. “Please, tell me you’ll save me a  dance? It would be a delight to dance with one so lovely.”

Her face went from pink to deep crimson. “Of course I would,” she  stuttered, trying to sound noble and courteous.

“Oh, wonderful. It shall be an honor I look forward to throughout the  night. My name is Andrew. Might I know yours, fair lady?”

“Serena,” she managed, still flustered.

“Ah, Lady Serena. The name fits, for it is as beautiful and unique as  you.”

Serena wondered if she could smile any larger.

Andrew turned to Seiya, having to tilt his head back to look up at him.  “Well look at you! I didn’t even know you owned such fine clothes!  You look dashing, Seiya, truly a sight. You will certainly steal the  attention of every girl away from those of us who are not so lucky.”

Seiya harrumphed and looked away. Andrew chuckled at him and turned  back to Serena. “I hope he didn’t bore you on the way down. He doesn ’t say a whole lot around strangers. Well . . . really he doesn’t say  a whole lot around anyone.”

Serena grinned. “It was a pleasant enough walk.”

All things considered, Andrew appeared to be the polar opposite of  Seiya. He was short and slender and had whitish blonde hair falling  just below his rounded jaw. His eyes were an emerald green. Serena  thought he must be permanently cheerful with the way his smile seemed  plastered to his pink lips. For the occasion he had worn a dressy white  tunic tied with a large silver belt and pale blue slacks. Andrew was  day and Seiya, in all black, was night. Andrew, Serena noted, was cute,  adorable, and charming in an almost childish way. Seiya was  smolderingly handsome in a way that made a girl wonder if she should  fawn over him—or run away.

“Well then,” Andrew continued, his gaze still on Serena, “I must see  to some of the other guests, and the girl. I trust that Seiya will  instruct you on your responsibilities, if he has not already, dear  Chosen One from a faraway land.”

Serena stared in wonderment as Andrew kissed her hand again. “Wait.  Chosen One? You’re the second person who has called me that. What does  it mean? And what responsibilities?”

Andrew’s smile faltered momentarily, before he lifted his chin up with  a proud grin. “Ah, so Hota didn’t explain it after all. Well, no  worries, fair lady. I’m sure you’ll do just fine. I think this is  going to be an easy one, after all.” After a bow, he turned on his  heels and began walking away. Just before he disappeared into the  crowd, Serena saw him reach up and brush his hair back from his face,  revealing a tall, pointed, elfin ear.
Chapter 4: Midnight
They thought she must be a foreign princess, for she looked so  beautiful
in the golden dress. The prince approached her, took her by the hand,
and danced with her, and he would dance with no one else. 
from Cinderella

“An elf?” Serena murmured to herself, her gloved fingers clasping  together in front of her stomach as she watched Andrew go. “How  delightful! I met an elf! A real life elf!”

Seiya peered at her, expressionless and bored, then clasped onto her  upper arm and dragged her toward the outdoor exit. She quickly lost her  excitement upon remembering the strange things Andrew had said before  he’d left.

“Seiya, why do people refer to me as the Chosen One? What is it you  all think I’m here to do?”

He waited until he had guided her to the bottom of the grand staircase,  before turning her to face him. “You will understand soon enough. Are  you tired?”

“Tired? No, not at all. Perhaps I should be, so much has happened  today, but every new event only makes me more excited!”

He nodded approvingly. “Good. Meet me at the top of these stairs ten  minutes before midnight. Do not be late!” His voice rang with  finality, startling Serena.

“Why?” she asked timidly.

“Because that is when we will need you.” He took a long breath,  gazing out the huge doorway. “I need air,” he whispered to himself,  before sweeping past Serena and up the stairs, disappearing out the  door. She watched him go, frowning to herself, before letting out a  long breath.

“What an irritating man,” she said, letting her gaze sweep out over  the crowd. She wished that Andrew hadn’t left her so soon; he was the  first person she felt she could really talk to, and good company was  proving hard to find in this strange land.

From where she stood, she could see Prince Malachite and his wife,  Mina, dancing in a corner on the dance floor. They seemed lost in their  own world with each other, and Serena smiled upon seeing them so much  in love, and wondered briefly how different things would be if she hadn ’t shown up earlier that day. Rumpelstiltskin would have taken little  Princess Cytherea away from her mother and father. But that wasn’t how  the story went, she knew. A messenger was supposed to tell the princess  Rumpelstiltskin’s name—not some girl who had never been in their  kingdom before.

Serena, as much as she often wished otherwise, wasn’t part of the  story. But today she had been.

The orchestra finished their song and became silent, drawing the  dancing to a standstill as the guests raised their eyes to the platform  where King Artemis and Queen Luna sat.

King Artemis stood and raised his arms for attention. His wife was  still seated properly on her throne and the two younger princes stood  behind the king, Nephlite to his right and Jadeite to his left.

“Ladies and gentlemen of Aysel Kingdom, I welcome you all to this  grand celebration, for we do have much to celebrate!” The crowd  applauded, urging the king to continue. “I will not waste your time  with long and idle speeches, but as the host of this event I feel it is  my duty to bring to your attention two announcements concerning the  people within this land!

“I’m sure you have all heard of the tragedy that had recently come  upon my eldest son and his wife, Prince Malachite and Princess Mina.  After the birth of my first grandchild, Princess Cytherea, an evil and  cruel man used a past agreement with my daughter-in-law in attempts to  steal away the infant child. Using an unfair game, this man would only  leave our kingdom without the young child if Princess Mina could,  within three days’ time, guess his true name. Today was the third day  and by this afternoon Princess Mina had not yet determined this  vindictive man’s name. But when all looked hopeless, ladies and  gentlemen, a savior arrived in our kingdom!” The crowd, having been  more or less silent with anticipation, drew a collective breath,  patiently waiting for the outcome, though most had already heard gossip  of the story.

Serena, for her part, felt her stomach sinking. Certainly the king  wouldn’t draw attention to her, would he? She was terrified at the  thought of being the center of attention amongst so many people.

“It is with warm regards and honor that I hereby introduce to you this  evening’s guest of honor; a young lady whom we are all indebted to for  saving the life of Princess Cytherea, a brave and fair maiden, Lady  Serena!”

As the crowd burst into applause, Serena flinched. Though she knew she  should feel honored, she only felt nervous and scared. A part of her  felt fake, even, as if she were an imposter in the kingdom.

She forced herself forward, having to cross the long length of the  ballroom as the king patiently waited for her to join him on the stage.  The crowd parted as she came by, creating an aisle of raucously  cheering guests who watched her with curious and admiring gazes. Her  head hung low, fearing the entire ballroom could see the redness in her  cheeks.

It seemed the longest walk she had ever taken before Serena finally  arrived at the stage and stood before the king. He kissed both of her  cheeks, forcing her to raise her head, before turning her to face the  crowd. The applause grew even louder. With shaky hands refusing to let  go of her skirt, Serena wondered if it would be appropriate for her to  bow, or perhaps to curtsy, or maybe she was supposed to make a speech— though she thought she would die if that turned out to be the case.

However, the king saved her the embarrassment as he stepped up to her  side and raised his hands to quiet the crowd again. Serena could see  smiles on all their faces, and tears in many of their eyes.

The king went on, “My second announcement is one that many of the  lovely young ladies in Aysel Kingdom have been waiting for and dreaming  of for months. My second born son, Prince Nephlite of Aysel, is now of  age to seek out a bride and marry!”

As an excited gasp and breathless chattering rose up from the girls in  the crowd, Serena glanced over to Nephlite, who had stepped forward to  the other side of his father. He was smiling pleasantly at the crowd  with his blue eyes and thin lips, his hands clasped confidently behind  his back. However, as she stared at him, Serena saw him silently inhale  a long, calming breath as his eyes swept over the sea of guests. He  seemed disappointed by it all.

Serena wondered how much of this engagement ceremony had been his idea.

“Please, eligible maidens of Aysel, do not be shy. Perhaps you will be  the chosen bride to my handsome son! Now then, if the orchestra will  commence with the music, the dancing will be—” King Artemis paused.  Turning to him, Serena saw that his eyes were caught on something  across the room. Looking past him to Nephlite, she saw that he, too,  was awestruck. His eyes no longer appeared disappointed.

Serena turned to see what had piqued their attention, as did the rest  of the quietly murmuring crowd. As quickly as they had started, the  curious conversations stopped.

A girl had just entered the ballroom from the far entrance, standing  now at the top of the stairs, surrounded by gold draperies, armor-clad  soldiers, and a dusk sky. Her hair, twisted like a crown atop her head,  shone like molasses in the bright candlelight, with tints of pink  radiating from the sky as the sun set to the west. Serena could see  little of her face from this distance, but could tell her skin was sun -kissed and her eyes were large and lively. Dressed in a golden gown,  the girl shimmered like a star against the twilight sky.

When at first Serena had taken notice of the girl, she had seemed calm  and more overcome with curiosity than anything. However, noticing that  all the room had turned to see her entrance, the girl locked her hands  nervously in front of her and took a daunted step backward.

Immediately, Nephlite left the platform, pushing though the crowd. They  moved to create an aisle for him, much as they had for Serena. The girl  saw Nephlite headed for her and stood still, watching him as he climbed  the staircase, their eyes locked onto each other’s. She seemed even  more nervous as he took a gloved hand into his and kissed the back of  it. Serena could see him muttering some words to her, but doubted  anyone else in the room could hear what he said. Even from this  distance she thought she saw the girl blush as Nephlite led her down to  the dance floor.

“The dancing will begin!” King Artemis finally finished his statement  and the orchestra started up into a new song, leaving the prince and  the girl to dance alone on the ballroom floor, before other couples  moved to join them in the quick waltz. Many of the girls in the room  looked utterly dejected.

Serena felt a smile stretch over her face, wondering if she had just  witnessed love at first sight. She was happy for Nephlite, and hoped  the girl was as beautiful on the inside as she was on the out.

“Hota did a marvelous job, didn’t she?”

Turning to the familiar voice, Serena saw Andrew beside her, smiling at  the couple at the far end of the room.

“Hota?”

“Yes, Hota. You met her didn’t you? I’m sure she had planned on  seeing you.”

“Oh, the fairy! Yes, I met her.”

Andrew smiled at her with his pale green eyes and crooked smile, before  holding out his hand. “Might I have that dance now, fair lady?”

Serena beamed down on him, feeling silly for being dragged off the  platform and into the arms of a man shorter than she, and yet she  couldn’t complain. He was indeed a gentleman and within minutes she  noticed he was also an excellent dancer. Of course, the same could  hardly be said for her, but that went unmentioned as the music melted  away the night.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
A long while later, Serena found herself smiling up at Prince Jadeite  as another song came to an end. Curtsying, she thanked him for the  dance, before slipping away for a sip of punch. The night had floated  through dances with Andrew, Prince Malachite, and Prince Jadeite, and  even one with the king, among countless other strangers who had coerced  her onto the dance floor.

Between songs she had spent time chatting with Princess Mina and Queen  Luna and tasting the hundreds of treats offered by servants on large  silver trays, or set upon the banquet tables along with meats,  crackers, truffles, cheeses, and berries. Serena had grown fond of the  dark chocolate and coconut truffles, the blackberry cheesecake squares,  and the assorted mix of skewered wild berries dipped in white  chocolate. However, she was much fonder of dancing and often found  herself on the dance floor after only a brief respite spent sampling  the tempting desserts.

She downed the warm spiced punch and set the glass on a servant’s  empty tray as he walked by. Her eyes scanned over the room to see  Andrew charming a young maiden out of her seat, and Prince Malachite  once again swaying to a slow piece with his wife. She noticed that even  the king and queen had made their way off of their thrones to join in  the festivities.

It occurred to Serena that she hadn’t seen Prince Nephlite or his  mysterious dancing partner in some time and she wondered vaguely where  they had gone off to, but dismissed the train of thought as a handsome  man offered his hand to her. She knew that her feet would swell in the  morning, but she didn’t mind as she smiled brightly and allowed the  gentleman to lead her onto the floor.

The aroma of sweet cologne hung on the air as Serena let the man guide  her in circles around the other dancers. She could still taste the  cinnamon from the punch on her tongue. Licking her lips, she knew that  the lip color the maids had put on her was long gone. The music held  her as close as her dancing partner did, the rhythm and tempo pulsing  against her veins until her heart beat in time with the melody. She  closed her eyes and pretended, as she often had that night, that her  dancing partner wasn’t some stranger from a foreign land, but rather  her impossible crush from little Crossroads, Darien Shields. The dances  could only become more enjoyable when she pictured herself in his arms  and thought that the cologne she smelled and the hands against her back  belonged to him.

The song changed and the man bowed to her, stepping aside as another  stranger greeted her and asked for her hand. Serena offered it without  thinking and was dragged into the quicker beat. The silky under-layers  of her dress were clinging to her thighs, reminding her of the painful  throbbing in her legs and ankles, and so she let the man do more work,  and simply followed along without trying to imitate all of the fancy  steps she had never learned. Her new dancing partner didn’t seem to  mind as his hand pressed gently against her back.

She spun beneath his arm and was drawn back against his shoulder, one  of the few moves she had grasped. Her lips turned up wistfully, her  eyes following the flowing dresses of all the ladies and the proud  smiles of all the gentlemen in the room. They eventually made their way  to the large grandfather clock by the king and queen’s platform.  Larger than any normal clock she had ever seen, it stood to about half  the height of the ceiling and appeared to be an exact, albeit smaller,  replica of the clock tower she had seen upon first entering the kingdom  of Aysel.

She stared at the mirrored face, mesmerized by the gold and silver  hands while she swayed dazedly in the music.

Then, recognition made its way through the haze in her thoughts and she  stiffened her back, her feet stopping in the middle of the dance step.  She gasped and stumbled and her partner barely caught her before  glancing down on her face with concern.

“Mi’lady, are you—”

“I’m sorry, thank you for the dance, I have to go!” she blurted in a  rush, before deserting his arms, grabbing up her skirts, and running  toward the large open doorway. The pain in her legs was forgotten as  she reached the top of the steps and looked out onto the moonlit garden  and long driveway that led through the gates of the castle and out into  the town, a different entrance than the one she had entered through  earlier that afternoon.

Breathing heavily, she collected her thoughts as she glided down the  outside steps, looking around for the escort she had not seen in hours.  Seiya was not among the small collection of armored soldiers guarding  the entrance and giddy couples chatting and kissing beneath the stars.  Serena began to chew on her lip, a nervous habit she’d had since  childhood, her hands clenching the layers of her skirt in a tight grip.

“You’re late.”

Spinning toward the smoky voice, Serena let out a long breath that she  hadn’t realized she was holding, before smiling innocently up at the  man. “I was having so much fun I didn’t realize how late it was! I  certainly didn’t mean to leave you waiting. But then, it isn’t  completely my fault, since you didn’t even tell me why we were meeting  here. Is it really that important?”

Seiya stood against a white marble pillar, his black tunic silhouetted  against the stone behind him. “Very important.”

Seeing that he didn’t plan on offering any further explanation, Serena  frowned and folded her arms over her chest. “Well? Are you going to  explain what’s so important? Maybe tell me what it is you want me to  do, or why you and Andrew and that strange fairy girl think I’m some  sort of ‘Chosen One’?” Her voice was rising, agitation building as  his charcoal eyes only stared down on her, not seeming to care about a  single word she said. He seemed as uninterested in her as he would be  in a fly on his shoulder. Serena briefly imagined him reaching out and  swatting her away.

He did not swat at her, however, but turned toward the ballroom at the  sound of a great chime echoing through the palace. One strike, two  strikes, three strikes, the clock continued to count off the seconds to  midnight. Serena stood, momentarily shocked by the flicker in his eyes,  the first time she had seen a hint of something more in the depths of  boredom. Was it concern? Or maybe even compassions? Stunned, perhaps  even a bit worried now herself, she followed his gaze, seeing the red  light from the chandeliers within spread flickering veins over the  marble stairs.

Above the music, Serena thought she heard the yelling of a man, calling  to something, someone. Then a girl appeared in the doorway. Serena  recognized her from before, the beautiful brunette who had entered the  ball with such a captivating presence. Her gold skirt was gathered into  both of her hands as she scurried breathlessly down the steps, her long  hair, having fallen out of its braid, bounced off of her shoulders as  she descended toward Serena and Seiya. She was ignorant of the few  onlookers who had turned to watch her leave.

Prince Nephlite emerged from the curtained doorway not far behind the  girl. “Please, stop!” he yelled, following her, though the distance  grew between them with every step he took.

Serena hardly noticed when Seiya grabbed her arm and pulled her farther  to the side of the staircase, letting the mysterious girl flee through  the dispersed crowd. As she passed, Serena noticed that her beautiful  face was stricken with worry.

The clock struck four. Five. Six. Seven times.

“Please, wait! I don’t even know your name!” Nephlite desperately  continued. The girl paid him no heed, her escape only pausing  momentarily when she stumbled on the steps and one of her shoes tumbled  away from her foot. For a moment it looked as if she would turn to  claim the slipper, but instead she grabbed the other shoe off of her  foot and ran faster than she had before with the slipper clutched in  her hand.

Eight. Nine.

Her gold dress could be seen half way out the garden by the time  Nephlite had reached the bottom of the steps. He ran right past the  shoe, ignoring the knights and the couples and Seiya and Serena as they  watched the scene with wonderment. A lavishly decorated carriage  awaited the girl just beyond the gate to the castle and she jumped into  it without looking back and was sped instantly into the empty streets  of the city.

Ten. Eleven.

By the dropping of the prince’s shoulders once he finally reached the  castle walls, Serena knew that the carriage was out of view and  Nephlite wouldn’t have a clue as to which way the girl had gone.

Twelve.

Nephlite stood alone in the garden as the last chime hung in the cool  evening air, then slowly turned back toward the castle and tediously,  dejectedly began to make his way up the wide pathway. The music inside  was upbeat and oblivious to the escape of the prince’s beautiful  stranger.

When he was close enough for Serena to see the candlelight on his face,  she felt her heart clamp painfully inside. Nephlite’s handsome face  was full of distress. His slow steps guided him past the glittering  shoe on the stairs as he moved with lowered shoulders, dragging feet,  and drooping head.

“How very tragic,” Seiya murmured behind her. His voice sounded  engrossed and pained. Serena realized that his hand was still gently  rested against her arm, part on her glove and most on her skin. She  shuddered—in surprise or fear she didn’t know.

“Prince Nephlite, wait!” she called, pulling her arm away from Seiya  as the prince brushed past her.

He stalled on the stairs, his head slightly listing toward her.

“Look! She left this! You can still find her!”

Serena strode forward and snatched up the girl’s slipper, turning  toward Nephlite with it proudly displayed in her hand. His deep blue  eyes looked at the shoe for a long moment, undisturbed within their  ocean depths. Serena’s heart ached for him, her gloved fingers  twitching around the slipper. It was unsurprisingly made of glass, and  so small that it barely stretched the full length of her hand. She  wondered if such small feet were possible, especially as the girl had  seemed taller than Serena’s petite 4’11” form by at least a head. Of  course, Serena knew that logically the girl must have extraordinarily  small feet, so that her slipper would fit no other girl in the kingdom.

Nephlite didn’t know that—yet.

“You see how small it is? How many girls could possibly fit into such  small slippers? There can only be one in your entire kingdom. You can  find her, Prince Nephlite. We’ll find her. I’ll help you.”

His dejected eyes were still glued to the slipper. Serena could see the  muscles flexing in his jaw and a strained gulp, but then a hint of hope  flashed in his eyes. His gaze darted to hers, then back to the slipper,  and he slowly smiled. To Serena, the curling of his lips was like the  sun climbing over the horizon after a stormy night. The prince reached  both his hands forward, his fingertips shaking as he gently took the  shoe into his grip, cradling it as if it would break. And, indeed, it  might have.

“Yes, we’ll find her. You and I, Lady Serena. And then . . . then I’ ll marry her.”

Serena beamed up at him. “We’ll set out tomorrow!”

His eyes were still locked on the slipper, but he nodded in her  direction, the grin growing on his face. “Yes, I’ll have the servants  wake you at dawn. Thank you, Lady Serena, for everything.”

She didn’t know how to respond nor was she given time as Prince  Nephlite turned and walked up the stairs, still holding the shoe before  him. She thought it a miracle he didn’t trip on the steps, really that  he didn’t falter at all as he disappeared into the glowing room where  the music played.

When he was gone, Serena let out a loud groan. “Now I have to get up  at dawn!” she wailed, crossing her arms and pouting. If Seiya had a  reaction to her antics, he didn’t voice it.

“You’ve done a wonderful job, Lady Serena,” Andrew said, suddenly  appearing from behind a pillar on the other side of the steps. Serena  turned to see him with a broad smile upon his lips and a small fairy on  his shoulder. She recognized Hota, dressed all in amethyst purple.

“Yes, that was pretty good for an amateur,” the fairy agreed with a  wink, her dragonfly wings fluttering slightly against Andrew’s cropped  hair and proudly displayed pointed ears.

“Now all we have to do is find the girl and get Prince Nephlite to ask  for her hand in marriage. It will be so simple! And the second he sees  her, he will undoubtedly fall madly in love, just as he did tonight. It  will be a splendid romance, and the wedding will be glorious!” Andrew ’s smile grew with every word.

Hota glanced at the elf from the corner of her eye. “Now, don’t get  overzealous! Drama is key in a good story, you know that! I have a  feeling this tale has not yet met its climax. The prince and his  mysterious cinder girl have a ways to go yet. Remember, he doesn’t  know her social class. He believes that she’s a noble. And there is  the cruel stepmother still to deal with.”

Andrew waved his hand as if to brush away the skepticism. “Nonsense,  love will prevail. Besides, we have Lady Serena on our side. I’m sure  she can help us to overcome any obstacle.”

“Wait. A. Minute.” Serena could feel her scowl making permanent  wrinkles in her forehead as she held a palm up toward the elf and  fairy. “Just how do you know she is called cinder girl? And what makes  you think she has a cruel stepmother?” she growled.

Andrew and Hota glanced from each other to the fuming girl before them  in surprise. Hota placed her hands on her hips and lifted her wings to  hover a few inches over Andrew’s shoulder.

“First of all, I’m that girl’s fairy godmother, I ought to know what  her bratty sisters call her! And secondly, we’re the guardians! It’s  our job to know everything about these people!”

Serena gawked at the tiny girl. A thousand questions ran through her  head, but they only came out in sputters.

“You—you’re her fairy godmother?”

Hota seemed puzzled at the outburst. “And just why is that so  surprising?”

“Because you’re . . . I mean, you look so . . . young.”

Hota looked down at herself, her black hair falling in locks over her  face as she smoothed down the shiny material around her waist. “Yeah,  so?”

Serena shook her head. “Never mind, I guess it isn’t important. But  you know where Cinderella lives then? Where we can find her?”

The fairy beamed proudly. “Of course I do.”

“Great! That will save us so much time!”

“But I won’t tell you.”

Serena felt her shoulders sag. “Why not?”

Giggling, the tiny girl brushed her hair back with one hand. “Because  that would take all of the adventure out of the plot! How much fun  would it be if the prince found the girl right away? It holds no  anticipation, no anxiety, no fear! No build up of emotion before the  final climactic scene!” Her head was high, her hands balled into fists  before her breast. Her voice carried a tone of utmost importance.

Serena didn’t have a clue what she was talking about. Throwing her  hands into the air, she let out an enraged scream. “You act like this  is just some child’s story book! I realize we may be living in a  fairy-tale world right now, but it’s still these people’s lives we’ re talking about, not just some made up characters you can treat like  puppets in your crazy story!” Drawing in ragged breaths, she looked  from Hota to Andrew to Seiya and back to the girl. They were all  staring at her with benign, almost sorrowful, expressions.

“You’re wrong,” Andrew finally spoke up, his pale green eyes  watching Serena hesitantly.

“What do you mean, I’m ‘wrong’?”

“They are only characters in a book. They were created by people in  another world, for people in another world. They are like puppets,  going about in the imaginary world of another, waiting for someone from  that world to tell them where to go, what to do, who to love.  Unknowingly, they wait for the Chosen One to come and sort out the  tangled web of their lives, to give them purpose; to give them drama,  romance, and even tragedy. Unknowingly, they wait for you, Lady Serena.  We have all waited for you.”

Serena gawked at the elf for a long moment before shifting her stare to  Hota. The fairy nodded and she turned to Seiya. He made no move, but  his expression told her that Andrew had spoken the truth.

“Everyone in this world is a character made for a story?”

Andrew and Hota nodded.

“Even you?”

They glanced to each other while Seiya cleared his throat with a tinge  of awkwardness.

“In a way...” Andrew drawled quietly. “But we’re different from the  other characters. We and the Storyteller are the only exceptions.”

“The Storyteller?”

“The Lord Grimm,” Hota responded for Andrew. “He lives south of here  in a small cottage. There used to be more, but they are no longer with  us. It is now up to us guardians to keep things in order, but . . . it  just isn’t the same. The people here are lost without the guidance of  the Storytellers, and only Grimm knows how much longer even he will be  with us. That’s why we need you.”

“Why are you called guardians?”

“We guard the stories, make sure that things go according to the  wishes of the Storytellers. That none of the important aspects of a  story are missing in these people’s lives. To make sure that the plots  and adventures aren’t altered,” said Hota.

“Specifically,” Andrew added, “Hota keeps watch over the drama in a  story, Seiya protects the tragic elements, and I take care of the  romance.”

“Except lately things have been getting out of our control,” the  fairy went on as if there had been no interruption. “Like this  morning, for example, a messenger should have come and told Princess  Mina that he’d heard Rumpelstiltskin singing his own name, and yet, no  messenger came. Such occurrences have been going on for years now. The  magic beans no longer sprout over night, frogs no longer turn into  handsome men, pigs no longer build houses of straw . . . and we can’t  keep up with all the mishaps. Not by ourselves.

“So we sent a wise and trusted friend in search of someone who could  help us. Someone from the other world, who was familiar enough with our  world and our stories.”

“Don’t tell me...” Serena muttered, glancing between the guardians.  “Puss in Boots?”

They nodded.

“Oh my... and I thought it was just a cute little kitten.”

“That’s one of the reasons Sir Boots was such an optimal choice.  People from your world hardly expect him to be... well, interviewing  them. Plus, he has an uncanny knack for attracting people who are  familiar with our plights. He’s been working for some time, now, to  bring you to us. So do you see, Lady Serena? We need you. We need your  help in setting things straight.”

Serena didn’t see much of anything and felt her knees go weak.  Reaching her palm out to a nearby pillar, she slowly sunk against the  support, falling down to her rump on the marble steps. It was only a  moment before she felt a warm body next to her and Andrew’s arm over  her shoulders.

“Please don’t worry. We’ll be here. From this night forward we are  not only the guardians of the stories, but we are also the guardians of  the Chosen One. We will protect you, Lady Serena, so long as you help  us accomplish what we must.”

Chapter 5: The Glass Slipper
The next morning, the prince took it to the king
and said to him, "No one shall be my wife except for
the one whose foot fits this golden shoe."
from Cinderella

She did not bother to stay silent as she walked through the front door.  The house was empty and though her mother and sisters would soon be  coming home, it would take her only a moment to hide all of the  evidence of her rebellious, delightful, excruciating night.

All of the evidence.

She carried the shoe like a crystal chandelier: immensely valuable and  terribly fragile. Her tattered apron still hung on the wall by the  fireplace, caked in soot and flour and dirt. Pulling it off of its peg,  she wrapped it around the shoe before sinking gracefully to the floor.  She cradled the bundle lovingly in one arm and stoked the ashes of the  fire with the other. Hardly a moment passed before a few last embers  burst into little flames. Putting a piece of kindling on them, holding  it long enough for it to catch fire, she finally curled herself like a  fetus on the ground, cuddling the apron, and her only treasure, before  her.

She was still awake when the front door opened and three loud,  inconsiderate women stomped into the house. She pretended to be asleep.

“The nerve of that girl!” she heard her mother, her stepmother,  growl. “Taking all of the prince’s attention and then fleeing without  any introductions, any formal greetings. No one knows who she is, how  to find her . . . Aysel’s mystery girl, and there go the chances of  all the truly poor wenches in this kingdom.” There was the heavy  clomping of wood-soled shoes prancing up the stairs. “And where is  that lazy cinder girl? This house is freezing!”

“Should I wake her?” her eldest stepsister, Faith, asked through a  yawn.

“Goodness, no, I couldn’t stand to see that brat’s face tonight.  Remind me to have her cut extra wood tomorrow. This chill will not be  repeated another night.”

“Yes, Mother.”

Their voices disappeared into mutterings and the slamming of doors. For  a few minutes, the girl in the ashes listened to footsteps and heavy  dresses being dropped on the floor above her head, before the house  once again fell silent.

For reasons she didn’t quite understand, the cinder girl buried her  face into the folds of her apron, feeling the toughness of the shoe  beneath it, and wept. Between her tears she could see his face, and  beneath the rough muslin fabric she could feel the tender skin of his  palm, and amidst the crackling of the fire she could hear his voice  calling to her again and again.

I don’t even know your name.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena was awoken at dawn by a handful of hyperactive maidens. As they  primped and prodded and cleansed and dressed her, she sat quietly and  sleepily and thought about Nephlite, and about the three guardians, and  about the glass slipper. She also couldn’t help but think about Darien  Shields, and wonder what he would think to see little underclassman  Serena being waited on by servants in a massive castle, dancing with  princes and wearing silk and satin gowns.

Her mind was still drowsy when Prince Nephlite knocked at the door. He  was much livelier than he had been when she had last seen him, and  wouldn’t stop talking from the moment he stepped into her suite. It  appeared that he hadn’t slept the night before, for he now had a  completed diagram of the town, Aysel, and its occupants. Each house was  numbered and color-coordinated to match with the homes that had  daughters of different statuses who had attended the ball. Drawn very  carefully in auburn-colored ink, with a straight edge and detailed with  accompanying arrows, appeared a path overlying the town that they would  follow to ensure they reached every house by nightfall. Nephlite  proposed that they begin in the richest neighborhoods, right outside  the castle walls, since his love had been so beautiful “she only could  have come from noble standing.”

Serena smiled sleepily and nodded at everything he said, wondering if  she would get free donuts and coffee for her services.

The fawning maidens hadn’t yet finished with their morning ritual  before Serena was ushered out of the room by the anxious prince,  leaving her to throw her hair up into a its usual style, two twin buns  and ponytails, as they paced down the hallway and into the palace  labyrinth. This time Serena didn’t attempt to remember the strange  hallways as they passed by the libraries and art rooms, but instead  focused on holding the large skirt that the maids had forced upon her  from out beneath her feet, and tried desperately not to lose balance on  the little heels of her shoes. Her soles were terribly sore from the  previous evening and she still wasn’t used to the delicate footwear.  She couldn’t help but wonder what had become of her tennis shoes.

Eventually, they reached a long cobblestone path at the palace’s  eastern entrance, where the sun could be seen just starting up over the  horizon.

She was delighted as the coachman handed her a pastry with banana cream  filling and brown sugar topping, and though she missed her morning  coffee, she could not complain for lack of donuts. Soon, the horses  began galloping off with the prince still climbing into the opposite  bench. Rubbing her eyes, Serena desperately tried to wake up as the  bouncing carriage rambled outside of the palace walls.

The town looked exactly the same on this side of the palace as it had  on the other, complete with the red and white stonewalls and multi- colored roofs. Serena shook her head. There must have been thousands of  families in this town. Searching for the girl was like searching for a  needle in a haystack.

Serena’s thoughts didn’t have long to wander. The prince stopped at  the end of the street, just before in front of the castle walls. He  still had a goofy grin on his face.

“Here it is: the first house! It could be hers, you know.”

But Serena knew it wasn’t. Hota would have seen to that. As Nephlite  helped her out of the carriage, she had a long sinking feeling in the  pit of her stomach. This was going to be a long day, and all she wanted  to do was crawl back into bed.

They approached the first home—all red and white with a dusty blue  roof. All the windows were flanked by decorative shutters and had  ornamental flower boxes filled with lilies and chrysanthemums. It was  an adorable house, even if it did look exactly like every other house  in the town.

Nephlite went first, practically skipping up to the door. The coachman  followed with the glass slipper gingerly set upon a luscious purple  velvet pillow with golden tassels. It sparkled brilliantly in the early  morning sun.

Nephlite did not wait for Serena and the coachman to join him on the  front steps. He knocked exuberantly on the pretty blue door. It was a  long silent moment before they heard steps within and a middle-aged man  opened the door dressed in his nightgown.

“Whadya want?” he asked grumpily. “It’s 6:30 in the bloody mornin’ !”

“Pardon me, kind sir. I am Prince Nephlite of this kingdom and I would  like to have a word with your daughters.”

The man’s irritation dropped away as he recognized the prince. “Oh,  Your Majesty! Of course, of course, please, forgive my rudeness. Come  right in!”

As they stepped inside, the man ran up into his house. They heard him  banging on doors and whispering excitedly (if not quietly). Soon,  nervous squeals were heard upstairs and a few moments later, the man’s  wife came scuttling down the staircase, dressed in a lush chenille  robe, her hair tied with curling rags.

“Come in!” she called cheerfully, waving them into the parlor. “Make  yourself comfortable. I’ll have Ginny put on some coffee.”

Serena brightened up.

“That won’t be necessary,” Nephlite said. Serena could have slapped  him. “If we could just see your daughters, please. We may have much to  do today.”

The woman’s face fell momentarily, but it quickly brightened again. “ Certainly! They dawdle from time to time, you know how girls can be. I ’ll go see what’s taking them so long.”

As she darted upstairs again, Serena fell into a nearby loveseat.  “Coffee would have been nice,” she stated accusingly, but Nephlite  didn’t seem to hear her.

“To think that she could be right upstairs, in this very house,” he  said dazedly.

A second later, the man and woman reappeared with four disgruntled  girls trotting behind them. The first was desperately trying to take  curlers out of her hair, the second was struggling with her stockings,  the third was spritzing herself with scented water, and the fourth was  quickly lacing up her dress bodice. They looked to be between the ages  of thirteen and twenty, and they were all red-headed with freckles.  Pretty cute girls, Serena mused, but Nephlite’s girl was brunette.

If Nephlite noticed this, he said nothing as the coachman launched into  a speech he had obviously rehearsed.

“Ladies of Aysel, at yester evening’s engagement masquerade, a young  woman met and danced with His Majesty, Prince Nephlite. However, she  left the ceremony abruptly at midnight without giving her name. All  that she left was this glass slipper. Hence, the girl that fits and  belongs to this slipper, the prince has vowed to make his bride. If any  of you believe this shoe to be yours, please step forward.”

The girls eyed each other in drowsy confusion before their mother  ahemed and the eldest moved toward the coachman.

“Er . . . I think it could be mine,” she said uncertainly and her  expression told clearly that she knew it was not.

But the coachman ushered her into a nearby chair anyhow and she removed  her knit stockings. Nephlite leaned forward expectantly and Serena  rolled her eyes, feeling like she could drop off into sleep at any  moment. The coachman slipped the shoe over her toes . . . and stopped.  It would go no farther. The fit wasn’t even close.

He took the shoe off as the mother groaned disappointedly. The eldest  stood with an ashamed look on her face and the second eldest took her  place. One by one, the girls tried on the shoe, but none of them fit.  The youngest came close, but could not quite squeeze her heel into the  slipper.

“Her feet are swollen from all of the dancing!” the mother cried  desperately as Nephlite bowed and thanked them for their time. Serena  was pulled from her seat and ushered toward the door, yawning and  crankily batting the prince’s hand off her arm.

“Thank you again,” he called back as they scurried out to the street.  Serena looked at him, expecting his features to be disappointed, but  rather, they seemed just as chipper as ever.

“This next one,” he crooned, jaunting across the street, “it could  be it! She could be here!”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The sun was setting beneath the mountains to the west and Prince  Nephlite sat sullenly pouting across from Serena in the carriage. All  day they had traveled and searched. They had seen girl after girl try  on the glass slipper, seen mother after mother with hopeful glimmers in  their eyes, tear after tear as the prince walked away from their homes.  Serena watched with little sleep and no additional food in her stomach  as the prince’s shoulders sunk. She tried to become more chirpy and  optimistic with every disappointment, but time and again, Nephlite’s  hopes were shattered, driven from ever seeing his lovely stranger  again. Now the stars were coming out in the sky and only one home  remained. If the mysterious girl was not found in this residence,  Prince Nephlite had little hope of ever seeing her again.

The carriage stopped outside the gate and Serena jumped from the small  doorway without help from the prince or the coachman (whose eyes were  also looking rather droopy).

“This is it, the last house!” she proclaimed, clasping her hands  before her chest. “She must be in here. Can you believe it, Nephlite?  You’re so very close. She must be right in there!” Her lightest voice  and largest smile had little effect on the prince. His dark eyes looked  on at the house with heavy skepticism. Serena knew what he was  thinking. This was his last chance. If the girl wasn’t in there, there  was little chance that she would ever be found. Serena herself, though,  was ecstatic.

Serena stood in the gravel road, staring up at a two-story brick house,  a cool dusk breeze tousling her hair. “Finally,” she murmured beneath  her breath. “If that girl doesn’t live here, I’m going to throttle  someone, and that fairy godmother is at the top of the list.” Nephlite  approached from behind her, his footsteps slow and imbalanced on the  rocky ground.

“What will I do?”

“Don’t worry. She’ll be here. I’m sure of it.” Inhaling a deep  breath, she marched toward the front door, an ornate, red lacquered  door that was warm and inviting. The distinct sounds of chickens and  cows could be heard from behind the house. The air smelled pleasantly  of hay and the lavender that lined the pathway through the front  garden. Serena was the first to reach the door. With a quick glance  over her shoulder to see that Nephlite and the coachman were still with  her, Serena took a deep breath and lifted the knocker.

The heavy iron ring thudded three times against the red door, echoing  through the walls and eves of the house. It was immediately followed by  chatter and scuffling within, and soon after they had silenced the door  opened to reveal a proud, beautiful woman with charcoal eyes and gray- speckled hair.

“Good evening, mi’lady. Please welcome—”

“Your Majesty!” the woman proclaimed, brushing past Serena and  dropping to one knee before Nephlite. She grasped his hand in a pale,  wrinkled palm and pressed valentine red lips to his knuckles. “I am  honored that you have graced our humble home with your presence.”  Standing, she waved her arm to the doorway. “Please, won’t you come  in for tea?”

All this in less than ten seconds and the dark cast of the prince’s  eyes didn’t show the slightest hint of fading. He nodded to her  request and stepped inside, followed by the coachman with his pillow  and the shiny slipper that had not lost any of its glimmer, despite the  hundreds of hands and feet that had touched it that day. Serena hung  back, watching the woman eye the slipper hungrily, before entering the  “humble home” as well.

They were urged past the foyer and a little staircase into a charming  living room. A fire burned in the hearth, tea and five cups had already  been poured and set out on a dark wood coffee table, and two fair, if  not extraordinary looking, girls sat on a sofa, one darning socks, the  other practicing embroidery, and neither of them seeming to do a great  job of it.

Upon the entrance of the prince, both girls set their crafts down and  stood (in unison). “Good evening, Your Majesty.” Their smiles and  batting eyelashes were even more saccharin than every other girl Serena  had seen that day. She wanted to gag.

Nephlite looked the two girls over with an unimpressed gaze, his  shoulders caving in as the thought dawned on him that these must be the  last two girls in the kingdom. Even without the slipper, he knew that  neither of them were his beautiful princess.

“May I introduce my daughters,” the woman announced, strolling into  the room, her arms floating around like an over-instructed ballerina,  “Faith and Hope.”

The girls curtsied, the prince nodded, and the coachman began his  speech for the umpteenth time that day. Serena yawned as she listened  to him drawl on, the three other ladies in the room practically  salivating as the coachman reached the part about marriage to the  prince and heir to a portion of the kingdom. They all eyed the glass  slipper like a pack of wolves. While the proceedings went on, Serena  wondered just where in the house the pretty cinder girl must be hiding,  and if she knew that they were there—that her prince was in her house.  Serena kept her ears sharp, though her thoughts began to wander when  she noticed a plate of cookies beside the tea.

The coachman finished and inhaled a deep breath after his exhaustive  dissertation.

“It’s mine!” Faith screamed almost immediately, bundling her skirts  up in a fist. “It was I who wore it to the ball. I assure you it will  fit perfectly.” At a gesture from the coachman, she pranced over to a  high-backed chair and sat down with all the poise of schoolboy. Neither  the coachman nor the prince seemed to have much confidence in her  honesty, but the coachman kneeled down beside her anyway, taking the  slipper into both hands as she gingerly unrolled her stocking.

It was obvious from the start that the slipper would not fit. In fact,  it was sure to not even come close. And indeed, as the coachman moved  to slip, or more like force, the shoe onto the girl, she barely managed  to get her toes inside.

“Why! I don’t understand! It fit yesterday!” Faith screeched,  grabbing the shoe and jamming it on as forcefully as she could. “It is  my shoe, I’m sure it is!”

“My apologies, mi’lady, but it seems—”

“There’s a sore on my toe!” she screamed hysterically. “I shall cut  it off and prove that the slipper is mine!” And she fled into the next  room, the slipper in her grasp. The coachman and prince made to run  after her, but her mother stepped before them with the tray full of  cookies.

“Please, gentlemen, I assure you she will be right back. Relax. Eat  something if you please.”

“This is a very serious matter,” Prince Nephlite said angrily. “If  something happens to that shoe—”

Serena attempted to dodge around the woman, but not because she was  worried about the slipper. As Faith had run from the room, Serena had  remembered one of the most gruesome aspects of the story of Cinderella,  and what exactly the stepsisters did to fit into the shoe. “We have to  stop her!” she squealed as Faith’s mother held her back. “You don’t  know what she’s planning to do!”

“I believe she’s trying to marry a prince,” the woman hissed at her  with an icy glare.

Serena stopped screaming and stepped back from the horrid gaze. “But  is it worth it?”

At that moment, the door opened and a very pale Faith limped through.  Her face was horribly pained and her entire body was shaking. In one  hand she held a bloody kitchen knife, and on her foot was the slipper.

“It fits,” she said faintly. She looked strangely satisfied as her  mother gave her a proud grin.

“Ah! So it is my daughter whom the prince has fallen in love with. We  are so honored that you will have my dear Faith for your—”

“Lady, your foot!” the coachman yelled. Everyone in the room looked  down at the glass slipper, and as they watched a stream of blood began  to overflow and drip down the shoe’s sides onto the carpet.

Nephlite clapped his hand to mouth as if he would be sick. Serena  shrunk back with disgust. But Faith only smiled weakly.

“It is nothing. I merely scratched myself when removing the sore spot. ”

“What sore spot?” Serena shrieked, unable to control the outburst. “ Do you mean your whole toe?”

Faith glared at her in response and Serena found herself suddenly very  worried about the large butcher knife in her hand. “Now then,” Faith  said determinedly, “I am ready to go the castle, my prince.”

Nephlite was still looking aghast at the shoe as the blood soaked into  the carpet. As Faith began to walk toward him, limping and in obvious  pain, he suddenly bellowed out, “That is enough! Remove that shoe at  once!”

Faith stepped back as if he had slapped her. “What do you mean?”

“You heard him,” the coachman said. “You are obviously in pain. The  shoe does not fit. You can’t possibly—”

“But it does fit!” she screamed. “Look! It is on!”

“Take it off. Now!”

Her paleness turned to a bright red as Faith looked from the Prince to  her mother. She seemed at a complete loss as her warm blood continued  to overflow beneath her. Finally, she stooped down and with a painful  grunt tore the shoe from her foot.

Serena whimpered and looked away. Even Faith’s mother looked suddenly  quite sick and Hope thought she might faint. The prince and the  coachman were both disgusted by the pitiable girl, for she had cut her  big toe to a stump.

The coachman grabbed a stack of cloth napkins from the coffee table and  knelt to wrap them around the girl’s foot, before taking back the  bloody shoe.

“Mi’lady,” he said, breaking the awkward silence, “the shoe is not  yours.”

Faith began to cry hysterically. She dropped the knife and stumbled  back into the other room, clutching the blood-soaked cloths in one  fist.

The door slammed behind her and the room was filled with intense  silence and the smell of blood. The girls’ mother spoke first, once  again wearing a complacent expression.

“I apologize for my daughter’s behavior. I don’t know what’s come  over her. However, my other daughter also attended yester eve’s ball. ”

Hope stepped forward, steadying herself on the back of a chair. “Yes,  I was. And indeed, I do remember dancing with you, Your Majesty. I am  sure that the shoe is mine.”

The prince looked unconvinced, but the coachman had already cleaned out  the shoe with a towel. Hope sat down and held out her foot. The  coachman went to slip it on, but it only barely fit over the arch of  her foot. Her heel would not squeeze in, so he went to pull away,  shaking his head apologetically.

“The slipper does not fit.”

“But of course it does. You aren’t doing it right! What does a man  know of a woman’s shoe?” Hope asked snottily, grabbing the shoe and  ramming her foot into it as roughly as she could.

“That is enough, mi’lady!” Nephlite said sternly, but she did not  stop. With an angry cry, Hope grabbed up the knife and raised it above  her heel.

“No!” Serena cried, snatching the knife away before Hope could maim  herself like her sister had. “Are you crazy? The shoe doesn’t fit. It ’s done!”

“But it does! It can! I will marry the prince!”

Serena held the knife away so that the girl could not get to it, though  she screamed and begged. Finally, Hope broke into horrible sobs and ran  out of the room in the direction her sister had gone.

Heaving a long sigh, Serena threw the knife down on the table. “You  have raised a very sad couple of daughters,” she harshly accused the  mother.

The woman glared at her coolly, but did not respond. She slowly set the  plate of cookies that she had been holding down onto the table and  turned to Prince Nephlite. “Your Highness, I am so sorry for my  daughters’ behavior this evening. They are easily excitable.”

Serena rolled her eyes, but Nephlite bowed politely. His face had a  peculiar green tint.

“I take it there are no more young ladies in the house?” he asked  shakily, stooping to pick up the deserted glass slipper.

The woman shook her head.

“I see. Then I apologize for taking up your time. Have a good evening. ”

“Wait!” Serena said, stepping forward quickly. “Perhaps there is one  more girl.”

The woman raised her eyebrow in irritation. “I assure you I have no  other daughters.”

“Not a daughter,” Serena mused, “but a servant.”

For a moment the woman looked surprised, but it was easily replaced  with contempt. “Whatever do you mean? Why would I let a servant go to  the ball?”

“Yes,” the prince hissed at Serena, “why would she?”

“It doesn’t matter,” Serena snapped. “We must try this slipper on  every eligible girl in the kingdom, isn’t that right, Nephlite?”

His frown deepened at her. “Eligible girls include those of noble  status, Lady Serena. Those who could actually have attended the ball.”

Serena heaved a frustrated sigh. “Who is to say that she couldn’t  have? Give any pretty girl a dress and a pair of fancy slippers . . .”

The woman laughed. “And wherever would a servant girl find such nice  things? Certainly, you don’t believe that the honorable Prince  Nephlite would want to marry a measly commoner?”

“Yes, you wouldn’t believe that, would you, Serena?” Nephlite  growled.

Serena looked at him in astonishment. “What does any of that matter?  You fell in love with her heart, not her status, didn’t you? Now, is  there another girl here or not?”

“Serena, that is quite enough!” Nephlite yelled. “Mi’lady, once  again, I am sorry for taking up your time. Good day.” He abruptly  grabbed Serena by the arm, the slipper still clutched in his other  hand, and stormed to the front door.

“Ouch! You’re hurting me!” Serena wailed exasperatedly as she was  dragged out to the road, the coachman trotting behind them with his  empty pillow. The door slammed behind them and the prince finally let  go.

“How dare you!” he hissed, turning to face her.

“How dare I what?”

“How dare you insult me, a prince of Aysel Kingdom, in the home of a  noble?”

“Insult you? What, by asking to see the love of your life?”

“By asking for a servant girl! Who do you think I am? Do you honestly  believe that I would sink to the level of marrying a peasant? It’s  inconceivable!”

“Oh, get over yourself!” Serena threw her arms in the air. “She’s a  person, just like you. And just because she doesn’t have some high- class status does not make her any less worthy of your affection, or to  be a princess. What if she is the most beautiful, sweet, wonderful girl  that will ever come into your life? And you’re going to let her walk  away because of some stupid title? That is the insult!”

“No! The fact that I let you, another commoner, drag me around on this  wild goose hunt is the insult!” Nephlite screamed, throwing the glass  slipper to the road. With a crash, it shattered into hundreds of tiny  sparkling shards.

Serena yipped, jumping away from the shattered glass.

“You may have performed some great feat with that dwarf man yesterday,  but I see now that you are nothing more than a nuisance! You are but an  ungrateful, impolite, rude, childish . . . girl! Rescued niece or not,  you are no longer welcome in my palace.” Throwing back the curtain of  the carriage, Nephlite stomped into it. “Coachman!”

“Er . . . yes, Your Majesty,” replied the driver, nodding  apologetically to Serena and jumping up into the seat. He grabbed the  reigns and drove off down the cobblestone road, leaving Serena to gape  after them.

“Why,” she finally breathed, her jaw hanging open, “that conceited,  arrogant little . . .”

“. . . very important prince.”

Serena spun around to see Seiya, his arms crossed, staring at her.  Andrew stood at Seiya’s side, Hota perched on his shoulder. They all  looked slightly doubtful.

“I’ll have to review my notes,” Hota said, “but I’m pretty sure  that was not how that was supposed to go.”

“It isn’t my fault that Nephlite is being a stubborn jerk about it!  He wouldn’t even see her!”

“Yes, well, that was your job, wasn’t it?” Seiya muttered.

“Serena,” Andrew said, stepping forward. Of the three, he looked the  most heartbroken. “We’re very sorry to have brought you out here. We  honestly thought that you were the one who could help us out.  Evidently, we were wrong. So sorry to waste your time. Perhaps we  should take you home now.”

“Oh, no way!” Serena spat. “Nephlite is going to meet that girl, he  is going to fall madly in love with her, and they are going to live  happily ever after, even if I have to knock some sense into him with a  two-by-four!” The guardians exchanged odd looks, possibly wondering  what a two-by-four was, but Serena had already swerved on her heels and  was marching back up to the door. When she looked over her shoulder,  the three guardians were gone.
Chapter 6: Cinder Girl
She sat down on a stool, took her foot out of the heavy wooden shoe,  and put it into
the slipper that fit her perfectly. After she stood up and the prince  looked her straight
in the face, he recognized the beautiful maiden who had danced with  him.
from Cinderella

Knock! Knock! Knock!

The same woman as before answered the door of the city’s last noble  home, her cold eyes glowering at Serena, but Serena ignored the glare  and swept into the foyer. “Where is the cinder girl? I must see her.”

“You must nothing,” the woman snapped, one hand resting on her hip.  Her politely charming smile had vanished, replaced now by a cruel,  unwelcoming gaze. “If you hadn’t heard the prince, dear child, he is  not interested in marrying some servant girl. Besides, you’re sadly  mistaken if you think that he could ever have come to—”

“Hello?” Serena screamed up the stairwell. “Cinderella?”

“—love that indolent stepdaughter. Besides, she wasn’t even present  at the ball. She was here, cleaning the—”

“Cinderella? Cinder girl?”

“—fireplace like the wretched maid that she is. Of course there was  no way that I would ever—”

“Where are you? I need to talk to you!”

“—allow the girl to attend a royal ball and bring shame and  humiliation upon my household and would you stop yelling?” Her voice  had risen steadily throughout her speech so that now they both stood  screaming while Serena stuck her head into each door in the entryway.

“Where is she? She must be around here somewhere. CINDERELLA!”

“Yes?”

Serena froze, her scream echoing up the staircase. Spinning around, she  was met with the sight of a girl not much older than herself. Her long  brown hair was being held out of her face by a scrap of green ribbon  and her lightly tanned skin was smudged all over with dirt and ash. The  dress she wore was too big and sagged around her shoulders and waist,  while her apron was tattered and covered in soot. Her eyes, however,  stole all attention away from these imperfections, captivating forest  green eyes that glittered behind thick eyelashes.

“I apologize. I was milking in the back and did not hear your call.”  She lowered her eyes and nodded politely to her stepmother, who held a  deeply creased scowl on her face. Serena noted a pale of frothing milk  in her hand. “May I be of any service?”

“No,” her stepmother spat. “Go finish with your chores and be quick  about it. I need you to tend to Faith. She’s had an accident and will  need fresh bandages throughout the evening. And I noticed that you didn ’t finish the mending yesterday, which must be done by supper, and the  fire’s about to go out. Prepare more kindling. Well, get on with it!  Don’t dawdle, girl!”

The cinder girl curtsied gracefully and turned to leave through the  same door she had come through. But before she could disappear, Serena  gathered her breath and proclaimed, “Prince Nephlite of Aysel Kingdom  is madly in love with you and I’m sure he will take you as his wife if  you come with me to the palace right away!”

The cinder girl stumbled, her first non-graceful movement that Serena  had seen. She turned back again. Milk splashed down around her ankles.  “Prince . . . No. Is it true?” Her sparkling eyes filled with  something quite new. Awareness, recognition, and perhaps even hope.

“Nonsense! This girl is under the impression that you attended the  ball last night and we both know it isn’t possible. She simply has the  wrong person. Now get on with your work!”

But the girl didn’t move, only stared at Serena with the same  enchanted gaze. “Did he really say that he was . . . with me?”

Serena smiled, her feelings of irritation lifting with the joy she  could see in the girl’s face. She nodded. “With you. And he wants to  marry you. He would have asked last night, but you ran away so quickly.  Please, come with me. I’m sure once he sees you—”

“That is enough! You, get out of my house! And you, if you don’t get  back to work immediately I’ll throw you out as well!”

But the cinder girl was already setting down the pale. “I haven’t any  nice clothes.”

Serena smiled. “It won’t matter. The castle is full of them.”

“Lita,” her stepmother said, quite firmly, her hysterics suddenly  vanished, “you know as well as I that the prince is not in love with  you. You will be laughed at and criticized and I will not have such a  humiliation put upon my household. If you leave with this girl, you are  no longer welcome in my home. Do you understand?”

The girl she had called Lita turned to her stepmother, her head still  slightly bowed, from respect or habit, and her hands clasped together  over her apron. “I understand, Stepmother. But perhaps you’re wrong.  Indeed, I did attend the ball last night. I even danced with Prince  Nephlite. And maybe, just maybe . . .”

But her stepmother was no longer listening. Her hands were clenched in  fists at her sides, her eyes wild. “Attended the ball?” she screamed,  her shoulders shaking. “You disobeyed me! You disrespectful,  inconsiderate—gah! Get out! Out of my house! I hope the prince laughs  at you! I hope he makes you a scullery maid for your ungratefulness!”

Lita took a step back, momentarily surprised, before anger and  stubbornness arose in her. “Well it would be better than being your  slave for another day!” Untying her apron, she threw it on the ground  at her stepmother’s feet and stormed out the front door.

Serena chased after her, still hearing the woman screaming from the  doorway. “Arrogant! Filthy! Wretched! Unappreciative tramp!”

Lita stopped on the sidewalk, slightly out of breath and her face  flushed from the anger she had released. “I suppose this is yours?”  she asked, indicating a stationary carriage before her. Serena blinked  at it in surprise, then noticed the coachman with familiar long black  hair and teardrop tattoo and smiled.

“I suppose it is,” she said, holding the curtain for Lita to climb  inside. Once they had both been seated on a cushioned bench,  comfortable if not as luxurious as the prince’s carriage, Serena found  herself eyeing her new guest curiously. The spite and authority that  Lita had displayed in the foyer seemed to fall away from her as she  smoothed her linen skirt over her legs.

They were silent for a long moment as the carriage rumbled along the  cobblestone roads, bumping and shaking as the brightly painted houses  rolled by, clumped closer together as they approached the heart of the  city, and the castle.

“It was the first time I’ve ever yelled at her.”

Serena looked up, startled from watching the red and white scenery  rattle by. Smiling, she said, “I do believe she deserved it,” and the  girl smiled back. “My name is Serena.”

“And I’m Lita.” After another quiet moment, she asked, quite  serenely, “Are you sure he loves me?”

With a grin, Serena responded, “How could he not?”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena put her hand on Lita’s forearm to comfort her as they walked  into the throne room. The girl was shaking tremendously, once in a  while reaching up to see if her hair was straight. It didn’t make much  of a difference among the dirt and ash smudges, but Serena still  thought that she looked lovely.

The king and queen sat alone in their throne room, holding hands and  chatting together. They both looked up as the two girls strode toward  them. Queen Luna immediately jumped to her feet.

“Serena! Goodness, dear, Nephlite told us everything. We thought we’d  never see you again!”

“Where is Nephlite? We need to see him.”

The queen looked from Serena to Lita, before nodding her head. “Of  course.” She flicked a finger at a servant waiting at one of the  curtained doorways, before hugging Serena tightly. “You poor thing, I ’m so sorry how he treated you. He has quite the temper, I know, but  he really is a delightful young man. It was just so emotional for him,  you must understand. Oh, but what am I saying? You must be famished!”  And with that, she gestured at another servant, who disappeared toward  the kitchen. It was not long before Nephlite strode into the room.

His face turned dark when he saw Serena standing there, chin held high.

“What are you doing here? I told you—”

“Nephlite,” she interrupted him coolly, “this is Lita. She is the  girl you danced with last night.”

“That’s Prince Nephlite, and how do you—” he was cut short again,  this time as his eyes fell on Lita. She sunk back a little under his  stare, but held his gaze. Inhaling a deep breath, she attempted to  stand as tall as she could, which was already quite tall to begin with,  even though her natural posture was more suited for sweeping. She  looked awkward in the lavish room, looking into the eyes of the  handsome prince. Awkward, frightened, filthy, and immensely gorgeous.

“Her name is Lita,” Serena repeated, noticing sparks between the two  that may or may not have been her imagination.

Nephlite took a step closer, analyzing Lita’s face. “It is you,” he  whispered. “But you were …. You had ….” He gestured at her ragged,  baggy dress and soot-stained skin.

“It was my fairy godmother,” she said quietly. “She gave me the  dress and the carriage and the slippers. It was all magic.”

Nephlite’s eyes lit at the sound of her voice. “I thought I’d never  see you again!” He reached for her hands, cupping them in his palms.  But instantly the light in his eyes faded and he looked down at their  joined fingers. Lita followed his gaze as he turned her palms up, being  met with blisters and calluses and dirt beneath her nails. Instead of  pulling Lita into his arms, he dropped her hands and took a step back.

“And you are indeed a servant girl,” he whispered. Turning his back  to her, Nephlite lowered his head shamefully. “My apologies, Lady  Lita. It appears that I was wrong. I did not fall in love with a girl;  I fell in love with the magic.” He paused, his voice dry and  scratching at his throat. “You are dismissed.”

Serena’s jaw dropped. “What? Are you crazy?” She started to storm  forward, but Lita held up her hand to prevent her. Lita’s head was  lowered, her eyes filling up with tears, though none fell. Her jaw was  set.

“I see.” Inhaling a slow breath, Lita slipped a hand into her dress  pocket.

Nephlite remained turned from them, placing a hand on the back of his  mother’s throne. He ignored Lita as she approached him and brought a  glass slipper out of her pocket. “If you have no need of a servant  girl,” she whispered, setting the slipper down on the arm of the  chair, “then I have no need of a prince.” She turned and walked  slowly out of the room, her head high as she left. No one dared to  speak until the sound of her footsteps was little more than a memory.

Serena spoke first, her anger having swelled inside her since the  moment he had turned his back on them. “You are the sorriest excuse  for a prince I have ever known. I am sorry and ashamed that I ever  wasted my time in helping you. I hope you never find true love.” She  turned to leave before she resorted to screaming again. Nephlite called  her name once, but she ignored him and stomped out into the hallway,  heading toward the castle’s southern exit. She was stopped, however,  by a man, an elf, and a fairy.

“I don’t want to hear it!” she screamed before any of them could so  much as open their mouth. Her hands flew into the air. “I tried! But  there is simply no helping that man! He doesn’t belong in a fairy  tale, anyway. I don’t know what anyone was ever thinking putting him  in one. He’s lousy and rude and arrogant and I bet he doesn’t have  one chivalrous bone in his whole body! He’s not even that cute! Now I ’m really sorry that your land is all messed up, but it certainly isn ’t my fault, and I’m not going to waste any more of my time trying to  set things right if everyone’s going to be so damn stubborn. Now if  you’ll excuse me, I’m going home.”

She attempted to brush past them, but Seiya stood in her way. “I’m  afraid I can’t let you pass.”

“Why not?” she screamed.

“Because,” Hota said from behind, still perched on Andrew’s  shoulder, “there is a very large, very hot, very delightful meal ready  for you in the dining room prepared specifically for your return and if  you don’t come and enjoy it now, it will all go to waste.”

Serena’s flared frustration subsided instantly and as if on cue, her  stomach rumbled loud enough for them all to hear.

“Food?”

Seiya nodded.

“And perhaps,” Andrew noted, very quietly, “all this will look  better on a full stomach?”

Serena harrumphed. “Doubtful.” But she did turn and follow them to  the dining room without further insistence.

She found the prearranged meal to be exactly as Hota had described it  and so much more. Her mouth began watering as soon as she laid eyes on  the extravagant feast and smelled the mixture of savory treats laid out  for her. Sitting at the table, quite alone and without so much as a  fork in front of her, was Princess Mina. She smiled as Serena entered  and gestured at the chair beside her, which Serena gladly took.

“Please, eat as much as you like. I understand you didn’t so much as  bring a snack for your long quest today.”

Serena began piling up the plate before her without further prompting  and soon was burying her teeth in a large leg of turkey coated in a  sweet mustard sauce. She became aware of her un-ladylike nature as the  sauce dribbled onto her chin, but didn’t mind as Mina passed her a  cloth napkin and began picking green grapes off of a platter herself.

“I really must apologize for Malachite’s brother,” she said after  the turkey leg had been devoured and Serena had moved onto a dish of  red potatoes and baby carrots smothered in gravy. “Nephlite is usually  very polite. It’s just that, well, he has so much pride. You know,  Malachite is the oldest and I think Nephlite has always looked up to  him, even envied him. I was a commoner, too, here in Aysel, you know.  But when I was betrothed to Malachite, they believed that I had the  power to spin straw into gold. Well, I couldn’t. Actually, it was that  little man, that Rumpelstiltskin, that could. So, even though I was a  commoner, no one knew it. They all thought I was something more, and I  think Malachite and I have been very lucky that our marriage has been  such a loving one, despite the strange events leading up to our  engagement. Anyway, what I was trying to say is that I don’t believe  it has ever occurred to Nephlite to marry a . . . you know, a commoner.  I’m sure if he just has some time to think it all over, after he calms  down and gets over the shock, he’ll see that that Lita girl is more  than what one sees on the surface. You’ll see. He really is a sweet  man.”

Serena took a sip from a crystal goblet of robust red wine. “What will  happen to Lita now? Her stepmother said that she couldn’t come back to  live with her and since Nephlite wouldn’t give her a chance, well,  what’s going to happen to her?”

Mina smiled. “King Artemis offered her a position here in the castle. ”

Serena was happy that Lita would not be thrown to the streets due to  her ruthlessness, but couldn’t help but to let her shoulders sink. “A  scullery maid, I imagine?”

To her surprise, Mina laughed. “Oh no! I think the king took an  immediate liking to her. I hear she’s a very charming girl. He asked  her what she would like to do, and she claimed to be quite adept at  cooking. She’ll begin an apprenticeship with our head chef in the  kitchens tomorrow. I hope it’s something she’ll enjoy.”

“A chef? Tell me, do the chefs often, that is to say, will she ever  come in contact with Nephlite, much? In that profession?”

Mina shook her head. “It’s quite unlikely. But . . . when the prince  comes to his senses, he will know just where to find her.” She winked  and Serena began dishing herself out some honey-glazed strawberry pie.

“Well, when he does, I hope she turns him down. I hope she laughs in  his face and makes him do something terribly daring and dangerous to  win her back. Not that it matters,” she sighed. “I won’t be here to  see it anyway.”

“Why ever not?”

“I’m leaving first thing tomorrow morning. I was going to leave  tonight, but it is getting awfully late, and I’m exhausted.”

“Oh, you can’t mean that. You don’t really think that you aren’t  welcome in the castle anymore, do you? Nephlite realized you were  telling the truth and knows you have just as much a right as any guest  to be here. And either way, it isn’t really his decision who stays and  who doesn’t.”

“It isn’t him, so much,” Serena admonished, scraping her fork over a  near-empty plate to pick up the last flakes of crust. “It’s just that  I believe I’ve already outworn my usefulness. I think I better go home  before I cause any more trouble.”

“Trouble? Oh, dear, you’ve been such a blessing already to this  kingdom that no trouble could ever make us love you less. Besides, you  can’t leave tomorrow!”

“Oh?”

Mina shook her head adamantly. “Malachite’s other two brothers are  returning from their hunting trip tomorrow. There’s going to be a huge  celebration and feast and I would love for you to come. I’m sure they ’ll both want to meet you.”

“I don’t know. They’ll probably be so worn out that a stranger to  entertain will be a bother.”

“No, no, no. They’re both very friendly and, knowing them, they’ll  want to share every moment of the hunt with any ear willing to listen.  Especially—”

“Mina, darling?” Malachite interrupted, striding into the room with  baby Cytherea tucked into his arms, crying and screaming. “I think she  needs her mother.”

Mina smiled and moved to stand. “You will stay, won’t you?”

Serena hesitated, sipping at her wine, before smiling softly. “I  suppose. But just for one more day. Then I really would like to go  home.”

The princess beamed and gave Serena a quick hug before pulling her  daughter into her arms and trotting out of the room.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena spent the next morning exploring the palace. Prince Jadeite, the  fourth son, offered to give her a tour of the grounds, but she politely  declined, claiming that she preferred to have some time alone.  Truthfully, she simply felt as if she’d had enough royalty in the past  twenty-four hours to last her a lifetime. She dressed as simply as she  could, providing the over-luxurious dresses in her room, put her hair  up, and decided to venture bare foot rather than stand another day in  heels. Her personal maidens had not come to her that morning, surely to  let her sleep after her hectic day searching for Nephlite’s mystery  girl, though she was sure they would find her before the day was  through and the next feast began.

Serena soon discovered that the castle was not quite the labyrinth that  she had previously perceived. Now, as she traversed the hallways, she  realized that the castle was in a very predictable circular pattern.  There stood an entryway for each point of the compass, and these were  all flanked by tall, cylindrical towers. The outside was surrounded by  a series of beautiful gardens that could be seen through every window,  shadowed throughout parts of the days by the encompassing stone wall  that separated the palace from the town beyond.

Excluding the towers, Serena counted seven stories in the palace, each  with an identical pattern of hallways that created a round target  pattern within the palace: three separate rings on each floor all  interconnected by halls and rooms. Some of these rooms were very large  and grand, such as the ballroom connected to the Western entrance;  others were small and cozy, like a tiny reading parlor Serena  discovered on the third floor. And every room looked different. Some  were grand and cold, covered floor to ceiling in marble and ornate  moldings, while others were warm and homely, filled with thick fur  carpets and heavy draperies. But they were all beautiful, all elegant,  and all fit for a queen.

Throughout her explorations, Serena kept her eyes open for any  servants, specifically anyone who might look like a cook or baker,  hoping that perhaps she could run into Lita or find out where she was  living and working. But she saw very few people—surprisingly few  people. A couple times she ran into a servant dusting a fireplace  mantle or some long tapestries, and once she noticed a young boy  organizing books in one of the libraries, but they all bustled away  from her when she came into view with polite smiles and excessive  bowing.

It was late in the afternoon when Serena discovered the grandest  library she had ever seen. It took up a quarter of the entire fifth  floor, the northeastern corner, Serena mused, glancing out the window  to a sky that was already glowing orange beneath the drowsy sun. It was  the most astonishing library she had even seen, ever imagined. Walls  upon walls of books, stacks and stacks of books, books on the tables,  the desks, the chairs, books beneath the windows, books on the ladders  that were used to reach more books. It was chaotic, disorderly, messy,  and completely delightful. Serena had usually left the love of books up  to Melvin, her best friend from home, and felt overwhelmed as she  walked in between the shelves and circled the room, her eyes skimming  the spines, her fingers trailing over the gold embossed lettering.  Despite all of the room’s messiness, though, she did begin to see a  pattern. On this wall she found traveling guides to other kingdoms such  as the countries of Cashlin to the west and Obelia to the north. On  another shelf was an array of cookbooks—The Year’s Best Sweet Potato  Pies and Mother Hen’s Exceptional Egg Omelets were among these titles.  Serena continued around the room, browsing through How to Safely Breed  Giants, Modern Mysteries: The Lost World of Never Never Land, and  Practical Curses for Good Witches. Eventually Serena came across an  anthology called The Royal History of Aysel Kingdom, and, after pulling  out a volume, she jaunted over to the tall windows. She cleared a stack  of books from a very cozy looking armchair and settled herself in  nicely with the book in hand, casually flipping to a random page and  reading the chapter heading: King Jack IV.

King Jack IV, it turned out, was a kind and generous ruler who had come  to the throne at the young age of 11. He was betrothed to Princess Jill  of Cashlin Kingdom, whom he was to marry on his 14th birthday. However,  their wedding never took place as Jack, at the age of 13, while trying  to help a servant carry a pale of water from a well down to the  kitchens, fell off of a small cliff and landed himself a fatal  concussion. Heartbroken, Princess Jill jumped off of a much larger  cliff the following week. This tragedy did, however, prompt the kingdom ’s finest engineers to install indoor plumbing to cut down on trips to  and from the water well.

Serena shook her head ironically and flipped some more through the  large volume.

Queen Goldilocks, she discovered, had been the great-great-great niece  of King Jack IV. After thirty years of a successful marriage (rendering  12 sons) her husband had gone missing from a hunting trip and she had  taken it upon herself to find him. Sadly, she wandered into an  unwelcoming house of bears and was “gobbled up” one night. Neither  she nor her husband were ever heard from again (lord only knows what  happened to the poor king) and their eldest son, Peter, became the  kingdom’s heir.

Peter’s fate was not much better, however, when the people overthrew  him due to obsessive compulsive and psychopathic tendencies, such as  his insistence on keeping his wife locked up in a humungous pumpkin  shell (which had been created by a fairy godmother—out of a horse- drawn carriage).

Loud horns and cheering interrupted Serena’s reading. She looked  around for a moment, before realizing that the sound was coming from  outside. Setting the book down at her feet, she walked over to the huge  window and peered out onto the garden. A parade of townspeople were all  dancing and skipping along the main road, following a small procession  of about twenty men, all of whom looked to be dirty, ragged, covered in  mud, and beaming at the people who had come to welcome them. Serena  could not see any of their faces but knew immediately that this was the  hunting party Mina had talked of the night before. She could guess who  the two princes were, though she could not see any of the men clearly,  as she saw Queen Luna ran down to greet them, cupping two of the  leading men’s cheeks and kissing them furiously, though she avoided  their filthy cloaks and tunics. She ushered her sons inside. Serena  could glimpse the other three princes, King Artemis, and Princess Mina  all waiting for them within the garden and greeting them with hugs and  kisses. Six of the other members of the hunting party followed them  into the castle, carrying large animal carcasses on makeshift cots,  while the rest of the men dispersed to their families in the town.

As the cheering died down and the crowd thinned and the last few  stragglers returned to their dwellings, Serena returned to her large  chair and sank down into the seat. She lifted the book into her lap and  turned to a chapter titled “The Frog Prince: Hacho and His Curse.”  But she soon found herself unable to concentrate—her mind kept  returning to the image of Queen Luna cupping one her son’s faces  between her palms and kissing him on the forehead. Something about that  prince in particular left her distracted. Something strangely familiar,  perhaps the way he carried himself or the strange glinting of the  setting sun against his hair. She sat in her own thoughts for a long  time as the sky darkened beyond the wall of glass, her fingers blindly  flipping through pages as her eyes stared up into the walls and books  around her.

A gentle tapping stirred her and she saw that the elf, Andrew, had  entered the room dressed in a handsome white tunic and silver cloak.  She set the book down and stood, attempting a curtsy. He chuckled. “My  apologies for interrupting you, Lady Serena, but I was sent to tell you  that dinner will be served shortly and—” he paused, surveying her  dress and bare feet and clearing his throat, “—perhaps you would like  to change before we gather in the dining hall?”

Serena flushed, attempting to tuck her feet back behind her skirt. “Of  course. Thank you, Andrew.”

“Come, I’ll show you back to your room.”

She followed him to the guest suites and was once again left in the  care of her four careful attendants who quickly undressed her, rubbed a  damp warm rag over her body, and dressed her once more in two layers of  undergarments, stockings, and a dress that was not as elegant as the  one she had worn to the ball, yet still perfectly lovely and full. Her  hair was taken down from its buns and pulled back into a roll at the  nape of her neck and a small silver pendant was hung from a chain  against her collarbone. Serena couldn’t help admiring the maiden’s  work in the mirror, even when they brought out another pair of satin  slippers with heels that she was beginning to dread.

When she stepped out of her room and into the hallway, Andrew greeted  her with a warm smile. They began walking toward the dining room. “You  look more beautiful every time I lay eyes on you, Lady Serena,” he  said.

“Surely you say that to every girl you meet.”

“No. Only the ones that it is truthful of.”

She laughed.

They continued chatting as he led her through the curving hallways and  soon she was in front of the immense dining hall, aromas of delightful  foods wafting on the air. Her mouth began to water. Once again, she  realized that she had hardly eaten all day, which was terribly unusual  for her.

“I do hope you’ll enjoy your meal, and I’m sure you’ll adore the  third and fifth born princes. Especially Prince Zoicite. He’s quite  the romantic.”

“You mean you won’t be joining us?”

“Oh, no, mi’lady. I am but a humble guardian. My place is not with  that of royalty. But, should you need me, I will be near.” With a  respectful nod, he disappeared around a bend.

Serena walked calmly into the room. All the familiar faces were there:  King Artemis and Queen Luna, Malachite and Mina, who held little  Cytherea, Nephlite, and Jadeite, all dressed in fine gowns and tunics.

“Oh! Serena, you’ve arrived!” the queen squealed, rushing to her and  grasping one of her hands. “Please, I want you to meet my other sons.  This is Zoicite.” She gestured to a handsome man with shaggy dark  blonde hair that tumbled over one shoulder in a messy ponytail. He  smiled whimsically with a distant look in his eye and politely kissed  the back of her hand.

“A pleasure,” Zoicite murmured.

“And this is my youngest son,” Queen Luna continued, wrapping her  other hand around the stranger’s arm and pulling him face to face with  Serena.

Serena’s eyes fell upon him and her heart stopped beating.

“Darien?”

Chapter 7: The Youngest Prince
It came to pass that the king of the country held a great hunt
in the forest, and soon horns could be heard along with the barking
of dogs and the merry cries of the huntsmen.
from Brother and Sister

Serena squeaked and stumbled ungracefully back into Prince Zoicite, who  quickly steadied her. “Darien? Darien Shields?” she breathed, gawking  at the prince.

With a furrowed brow, the youngest prince tilted his head to one side,  his messy black hair falling into vibrant blue eyes. “Excuse me?” he  said, his lips curving with amusement as he watched the color drain  from Serena’s face then coming rushing back to it tenfold as she  recognized the voice she had heard countless times in class and while  placing herself strategically in the same lunch line.

“Darien, it is you!” she squealed giddily and lunged at the prince,  wrapping him in a zealous hug. He tried desperately to both catch her  and steady himself, but the momentum of her body sent him toppling to  the floor, taking Serena down with him. “Oh! I’m so sorry, are you  alright?” she cried, but without waiting for a response, she buried  her head happily against his neck. “It’s just so unbelievably good to  see a familiar face, you don’t even know how homesick I’ve been, and  while everyone’s been so nice here I really miss Mom and Melvin and  the school and all of the students there and seeing you just reminds me  how much I want to go home so don’t be mad for the forwardness because  I know we never really knew each other, but it’s just so good to see  you!”

Grinning, she pulled herself away and quickly checked for signs of pain  from the stunned boy, but seeing none, she hid her face against his  shoulder again. “Is it really you, Darien? I can’t believe it! How  did you get here? How did you know?” Her abounding joy made it easy to  forget the awkward position she had landed the two of them, in front of  the entire royal family, but she could think of nothing more than  hugging him, the only connection to her world, her school, her friends,  that she had seen in days—a few short days that felt like a year. But  it was not long before she realized that the prince was not hugging her  back. She pulled away, a hurt frown appearing on her face. “Darien?”

His entire body was stiff, as though he was afraid to move, and he was  looking at her like one might look at a talking cat who was trying to  convince them of life on the moon. Serena blinked uncomfortably, her  smile fading, and again asked, “Darien?” Her sense returning, Serena  suddenly saw herself not in the grand dining room in Aysel Castle, but  rather Crossroads High’s auditorium, surrounded not by a royal family  full of friends, but rather her peers who could be kind or cruel. And  for her to tackle Darien, Darien Shields of all people, seemed suddenly  abominable. All this occurred to her as she sat staring into the  stunned eyes of her four-year-long, impossible crush.

Gasping, she tore herself off of his lap and threw herself backward,  being caught, once again, by a silent Prince Zoicite. Trembling, she  clasped her hands over her mouth. “I’m… I’m really sorry. I know  that wasn’t really… er… appropriate, but it’s just… seeing you…  it just…”

Queen Luna cleared her throat, cutting short Serena’s rambling, and  asked, much to Serena’s bewilderment, “Endymion, darling, have you  met Lady Serena before?”

The prince, still seated with his rump on the marble floor, pealed his  curious eyes away from Serena, to his mother, and back, and slowly  answered, to Serena’s even greater shock, “I . . . don’t believe I’ ve had the pleasure. . . .”

Serena flinched. “What?” She tried to chuckle like it was a joke, but  could see that Darien was not laughing, nor did he have that teasing  gleam in his eyes that he would have had were he only playing a game.  No, he looked perfectly confused and maybe even a touch nervous.  “Darien, what do you mean? I mean, I know we weren’t close and it  wouldn’t surprise me that you wouldn’t even know my name, but… but  we’ve gone to the same school for four years. We’ve had classes  together! I sat behind you in algebra, remember? I was the girl always  asking to borrow a pencil. Serena. Serena Tsukino?”

No recognition. After looking hopelessly at his family, Darien finally  shook his head and, with the help of Malachite’s outstretched hand,  pulled himself to his feet and dusted off his pants. “I’m sorry, but  I think you have me confused with someone else. I am Prince Endymion of  Aysel Kingdom,” he admitted, with the slightest hint of mockery in his  otherwise calm voice. “And I assure you, we have never met. I think I  would remember.” His expression turned to teasing insinuation with a  wiggle of his eyebrows.

Serena felt her legs go weak, as they always did on those rare  occasions when Darien’s gorgeous blue eyes would meet hers, but she  forced them to hold her body weight as she pulled herself from Zoicite ’s forgotten hold and backed away from Prince Endymion. Under her  scrutiny, the prince lifted his chin and tucked back his shoulders. And  his eyes were the same shade, the same shape, and his cheekbones and  jaw were just as strong and angular, and his lips quirked just the  same, but…

But there was something different.

Serena drew her brow down, blinking in disbelief.

Darien’s lips always quirked to the left when he was being sarcastic.

The lips of the prince looking at her now quirked to the right.

She gulped.

Perhaps it was his stature, but the prince seemed a tiny bit taller.

And, yes, his shoulders were wider, and his arms were broader and his  chest fuller and there was a tiny scar above his right eyebrow—whereas  Darien’s face had always been flawless.

“Oh,” Serena muttered, her voice wobbling. “Oh. Well, my apologies.  I must have . . . thought you. . . . It’s just that you look  remarkably. . . .” She paused, trying to gather her thoughts, and  finally turned her gaze away from the prince to the tiled marble floor.  Clearing her throat, she mumbled, “If you’ll excuse me.” Turning,  she ran from the dining hall, leaving a confused royal family in her  wake.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena dashed through the hallways, turning aimlessly toward whichever  direction struck her fancy. She knew that she could go back to her  room, or out to the gardens, or up to the library again. It didn’t  matter. She just ran. Anywhere, she thought. Anywhere but that dining  hall.

A sudden wall loomed in front of her and she crashed, squealed, and  tumbled down to the floor, gasping for breath.

She looked up to see, not a wall, but an irritated Seiya above her.

“You!” she screamed, pointing up at the man.

He raised his eyebrow in silent response.

“You did this! You and your guardian buddies! Why? Did you know? Is  this some sort of a joke? Are you making fun of me?” she wailed,  bursting into frustrated sobs.

“What are you babbling about?” he asked, feigning mild interest.

“Don’t you dare pretend you don’t know!” Serena screeched through  her tears. “You must have known! Or that cat or that old man or… or  somebody must have known! This is a joke to you, isn’t it? A sick...  perverted...” She could get no further as her voice clogged and she  found herself struggling just to breathe as the painful sobs racked  her.

“Well, that was quite the show,” giggled a petite voice, barely heard  over the girl’s crying. Hota fluttered down the hallway from which  Serena had come and settled herself neatly on the marble floor, her  hands sassily on her hips.

Serena immediately turned her reddened eyes on the fairy and swatted at  the oncoming tears with a sleeve. Forcing her jaw not to quiver, she  continued her angry interrogation on the miniature guardian. “Why didn ’t anyone tell me about him?”

“You mean Prince Endymion, I presume?”

Serena glowered.

“Well, darling, how were we to know that you would react like that at  nothing more than a pretty face? I realize that the youngest prince is  quite handsome, but honestly, you are being slightly melodramatic, don ’t you think?”

Serena’s tears stopped as quickly as they had come. Her flushed face  glared at the pixie, half-certain that she was playing some sort of  practical joke on her.

“No, I don’t think,” she hissed. “He—that prince—looks exactly,  well, almost exactly, like this boy that I… that I know! From my  world. A boy that I… that I… someone could have at least warned me!”

Hota calmly tilted her head to the side. “Now, this is quite exciting  and interesting, I’ll admit. Even dramatic. But I fail to see how this  impacts any of us. Just because he reminds you of someone is no reason  to get carried away like this. Prince Endymion is a fairy story prince,  just like his brothers, and he has been since the day he was born. I  watched him grow up. We all did. You are overreacting.”

“I am not overreacting! I was in—” Serena gasped and slammed her  lips shut, biting her tongue and turning angrily away.

Hota was quiet a moment, exchanging peculiar looks with Seiya before  inhaling a long sigh. “Alright, child, you’re being perfectly calm  and rational then. But regardless, the feast is getting cold and I’m  sure they won’t wait for you forever.”

“Oh, no, I’m not going back there, not after all that. I made such a  fool of myself! In front of them all, and it wasn’t even Darien. . . .  No, you can tell them to have my meal brought to my room.” She stood  up and folded her arms, briefly trying to remember where she was,  before choosing a direction and starting to walk away.

“That won’t do at all,” Hota called, floating after her. “Let’s  not forget why you’re here. You have a very important duty to fulfill,  and part of that duty lies in fraternizing with the royal family so  that you can find out what’s going on and what all the problems are  and how you can fix them.”

Serena rolled her eyes. “I don’t care about your stupid stories.  Tomorrow I am going home! To my mom, and Melvin, and Darien Shields!”

“Really? Oh, that’s very sad,” Hota said wistfully, if altogether  disbelievingly. “You’ll miss the wedding ceremony.”

Serena stopped walking and turned to Hota, her spirits lifting.  “Wedding ceremony? But you don’t mean... Did Nephlite find Lita? Did  he propose?” she asked hopefully, but Hota shook her head.

“No, not his wedding.”

“Who else is getting married?”

“Why, Prince Endymion is.”

Serena’s excited grin faded.

Though she tried to tell herself that the prince of Aysel and the  heartthrob of Crossroads were two different people, that he was not the  same boy she looked forward to seeing every day, who could make her  laugh as easily as he could make her cry, Serena still felt a sudden  wave of dizziness and a knot formed unbidden in her stomach. It wasn’t  her childhood, impossible crush who was getting married! What should  she care? What did it matter to her if that prince—with the same  haunting blue eyes and quirky smile—was engaged, in love, with someone  else?

Nevertheless, Serena couldn’t keep a hint of disappointment from her  voice when she asked, “Prince Endymion is getting married?”

“Oh yes,” Hota quipped proudly. “One of the few tales in this land  that hasn’t gone painfully awry, I would say. He’s been betrothed  since the girl was born and her sixteenth birthday is fast approaching,  the day after they are to be wed. I thought that since you seem  peculiarly attached to him, you might care a bit. But if not, then by  all means, we’ll look into taking you home in the morning. Sleep well. ”

Hota joined Seiya, who had watched the conversation with mute interest,  and the two of them continued quietly down the hall, away from the  dining room.

Serena stood still for a long time, before slowly making her way down  the hallway toward her quarters. He’s just another prince, she thought  bitterly. I’m sure it’s just some bizarre coincidence. They’re  probably complete opposites as far as personalities go. Identical only  on the outside. Of course, that makes much more sense.

She paused at a fork in the hallway, one leading toward her bedroom,  the other back toward the dining hall, and sighed. Well, if that’s the  case, it wouldn’t hurt to meet him and talk to him, just for awhile.  And then I would know for sure. Yes, that will do just fine. With a  relieved—even slightly excited—smile, she jaunted back to the feast.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
When Serena entered the dining room, the royal family was already  seated, gorging on venison and various breads and sauces. Endymion  stood at the far end of the long table, vividly recounting their  hunting adventures as the king and queen, Mina, and three of his older  brothers listened with rapt attention. Prince Zoicite alone seemed  uninterested. He sat silently picking at the salad before him.

Mina spotted Serena from across the room and waved excitedly, motioning  toward the empty seat beside her, and Serena gratefully, silently, sat  beside the princess and began dishing lamb and mushroom casserole onto  her plate. She was politely ignored by the rest of the feasters and it  suddenly struck her what an embarrassing scene she had made earlier.  Only Mina seemed oblivious as she leaned over and whispered to Serena a  comforting, “Are you alright?”

Serena smiled the friendliest smile she could and nodded, grateful for  Mina’s always welcoming attitude.

Humility was never her strong point, though, and she soon took to  watching Endymion tell his stories just as adamantly as the other  listeners. In a way, it felt like a strange fantasy coming true—eating  a large feast with Darien and his, well, extended family. Like if she’ d been dating him in real life and had been invited over for  Thanksgiving dinner or something. It felt peculiarly normal and for a  moment, she let herself get carried away with the fantasy.

“So there we were,” Endymion said mysteriously, both hands gesturing  for emphasis. “The buck was cornered—and he knew it. He looked at us  with his fierce black eyes and tossed his head from side to side. He  was desperate. Wild. I told the men to hang back while I crept up  closer, sword in one hand, spear in the other.” He grabbed up a fork  and knife to symbolize the weapons and Serena noticed that his plate  had not seen food that night. The onlookers hung motionless in  anticipation. “I crept closer under the canopy of bushes. The forest  was completely silent. I could hear nothing but the heavy breathing of  the buck as he snorted angrily—now only a few feet ahead. Then—a twig  broke—SNAP!—right behind me and he swerved. His eyes were level with  me now. He stomped one hoof on the dirt. Once, twice, then he hunched  his broad shoulders and lowered his huge antlers. Ready for one last,  desperate struggle.

“I considered signaling the archers, but I knew that they couldn’t  stun or kill him. And if he was attacked now, he was going to charge  straight for me. So, instead, I held his gaze and kept perfectly still.  The minutes ticked by. The air was frozen around us—not a breeze, not  a sound could be heard.

“Finally, bracing myself, I lifted the spear and threw it hard as I  could right at his heart! But he hauled forward and the blade struck  his shoulder. The buck reared up on his hind legs and when he landed he  was furious! I only had a moment to situate myself before he was coming  for me, his massive horns poised at my chest. I dodged and swung my  sword, but only grazed his side as he rushed past. He turned again,  just as a rain of arrows poured down from all sides. Kicking and  baying, he lunged, but I was more prepared now. The arrows had barely  weakened the beast, but greatly aggravated him.

“I saw him coming. The ground quaked under his hooves. I dug my heels  into the earth and raised the sword up, and just as he was bearing down  on top of me, I sprung forward and thrust the blade—hard as I could— into his gut!” The crowd gasped. The women buried their mouths into  cloth napkins and peered out with huge, wide eyes. But Serena did not.  She only watched the familiar grin on Endymion’s face: the excited  eyes, the exaggerated gestures, and she listened to the familiar  risings and fallings of his voice. In this, she was perhaps the most  dumbstruck of the crowd.

“It was only then that I found myself completely helpless,” Endymion  continued dramatically. “The buck knew he was dying, and he planned to  take me down with him. I was weaponless as he hovered over me with his  powerful legs. My spear had fallen too far away and my sword was lost  buried in his flesh. I tried to scramble away in vain. The archers  would not fire for fear that they would hit me. Then, just as I was  preparing myself to be crushed to death, Zoicite jumped to my rescue!  With one swipe of his sword, he slit the beast’s throat!”

Another gasp from the crowd and Prince Jadeite gave Zoicite a proud  clap on the back. The hero, however, only managed a small smile as he  mindlessly tore a piece of bread into a pile of crumbs.

Endymion continued, “With more power than I’ve ever seen a fighter  use, he stabbed the buck in its side—quick as lightning—before he  could recover from the shock. We were both covered in warm blood as the  buck stumbled . . . swayed . . . cast one more desperate, beautiful  look at us. Then his knees buckled and he collapsed to the ground. He  drew one last shuddering breath and closed his eyes for the last time. ” Endymion inhaled a long, deep breath as the story hung over the  table, closed his eyes as if to symbolize the passing of the deer, and  finally sat down. He immediately pulled a huge chunk of roasted meat  onto his plate and began devouring it greedily.

Soon, the room was alive with chattering and praise as the family  admired the brave hunters. Endymion answered all the questions with a  proud grin and a mouth full of food while Zoicite sat silently staring  into a glass of red wine.

Serena did not join in the conversation, nor was she asked to. Picking  at a stem of grapes, she kept her eyes mostly attached to the guests of  honor—Endymion seemed a sight for sore, homesick eyes, and while she  could distinguish more slight differences the longer she watched him,  he also became more familiar as time went by. The way he chewed his  food, how he unconsciously tested his slick black hair with his  fingertips, the way he held his fork, used his napkin, and licked his  lips. It hurt her to know that he wasn’t her Darien, that they did not  have that initial bond she first thought they would share—even if it  was as small and simple as going to the same school. In this foreign,  make-believe world, that had seemed like an awful lot. But he was not  her Darien. And when she thought of what Hota had said, that Prince  Endymion was betrothed to a princess, a sharp pain tore at her heart.  And yet, why should that be?

And then there was Zoicite, who did not seem as if he could possibly be  related to his energetic brother. He had hardly eaten and Serena hadn’ t heard him speak a word since their initial meeting. She doubted,  though, that this was only his personality—quiet and withdrawn. For,  as she watched him from the corner of her eye, she noticed him smile  whimsically to himself, before the little grin would fade and be  replaced with a lost, despairing frown. These emotions varied and  changed privately throughout the meal and when the servants came to  collect the dishes, Prince Zoicite was the first to leave the table.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
After all the dishes had been cleared away, the royal family drifted  into a seating room, Endymion and his brothers joking and playing. He  had barely glanced at Serena, and even Mina had seemed to slowly lose  interest in entertaining her as she was swept into the friendly chatter  of the family. So when they all slipped out of the kitchen, Serena  turned and walked the other way. Her thoughts buzzed with questions and  curiosities, memories and images, but no answers and no certainties.  She found herself continuously comparing Prince Endymion with Darien  Shields, like a broken record of every physical characteristic she had  memorized, every personality quirk she had longed for familiarity with.  Prince Endymion didn’t even act like a stereotypical prince, not like  Malachite and Nephlite did, at least. It seemed to her that if he could  be taken out of this fairy tale world and put into her school, he would  blend in perfectly with all the other students. He would become popular  and desirable—just like his other- worldly counterpart.

Serena meandered slowly through the halls and found herself out in a  courtyard, the same courtyard, she realized, that she had entered when  following Rumpelstiltskin into the castle, only a few days ago. Though  when she had first seen this garden it had been early afternoon. Now it  was after dusk and the high walls hid the sun’s last orange beams from  her. The sky itself was the color of robins’ eggs, speckled with stars  and a few wispy navy clouds.

She removed her slippers before walking into the garden, finding the  clover between the black and white tiles with her bare feet. The green  leafs comforted her toes, their cool softness padding each foot as she  made her way around the chess piece foliage. She had begun to follow  the path only a little ways to the right, toward the setting sun, when  she heard the grand double door open again. Her first thought, Darien,  turned out to be premature as she turned around and saw only Andrew,  smiling his flirtatious elf smile. She smiled back half-heartedly.

“Would you like some company, Lady?”

She shrugged, turning back to the path. “Sure.” She heard him come up  behind her and was soon at her side, admiring the same shrubberies,  although he must have seen them a million times.

“I trust that your worries concerning the youngest prince have ebbed? ”

She looked at Andrew from the corner of her eye. “What worries?”

“Oh, about him possibly being your friend-fellow from your land. You  surely recognize now that they are two different people?”

She pursed her lips together and looked down at the moss stretched out  before her. “Yeah,” she whispered vaguely. “I guess so.”

“Good. Then you have no qualms of staying longer? We really could use  your help, Lady Serena.”

She snorted. “Yeah, I’ve been a huge help so far. Turning poor Lita  into a servant in the house of that pompous prince Nephlite.”

Andrew chuckled. “I understand why you are so bitter about that  situation, but I do believe things will turn out for the good between  them. It only needs a little bit of time. And because of you, once the  prince comes around, he’ll at least be able to find the girl. Besides,  she’s an apprentice, not a servant, and that is better than life with  her stepmother any day, wouldn’t you think?”

“I suppose.” She knew he had a point, but couldn’t help wishing that  her first real fairy-tale endeavor (Rumpelstiltskin seemed like a  fluke) had been more “happily ever after” than “things will turn  out.”

“There was something special between this Darien fellow and yourself,  wasn’t there?” Andrew asked nonchalantly, though the impromptu  question made Serena’s feet stumble beneath her.

Nervously, she answered, “I just gave the prince a hug, Andrew. No big  deal.”

His green eyes glittered at her. “I was referring to the Darien from  your world, of course.”

“I know,” Serena said with a noncommittal shrug.

“I only ask because when you first saw the prince and believed him to  be this friend of yours, you greeted him... quite enthusiastically.”

Serena felt a blush climbing into her cheeks and wondered if she would  ever live that embarrassing moment down. Shrugging, she looked down at  her feet as they walked. “Nothing special... actually, we barely knew  each other. Scratch that, he didn’t know me at all. We’ve gone to the  same school since I was in fifth grade, and we’ve had a few classes  together, but I doubt I’ve said more than fifty words to him, and vice  versa.”

Andrew nodded.

“I sure did enjoy those fifty words, though,” she mumbled  whimsically, ignorant of the knowing quirk of Andrew’s lips. “I think  I’m just a little homesick. I’m sure that seeing someone—anyone— from my world would have prompted that same reaction. Even… even Ms.  Haruna. Or the librarian. Or that weird girl who always picks her nose  in history. So when I saw Dar—Endymion, I just got really excited.”  She paused, noticing that her voice had faded to the point where she  was almost talking to herself. Shaking off the reminiscent feeling, she  finished, “That’s all. There was nothing special between us. Nothing  at all.”

Andrew nodded again, but from the corner of her eye, Serena could tell  by the expression on his face that Andrew hadn’t been completely  convinced. She frowned, wondering exactly who she’d been trying to  convince.

One thing was for certain though: she did miss home. And she did miss  seeing Darien every day between classes. And she probably would not  have tackled the weird girl from history class.

Serena was surprised to see that they had reached the western entrance  to the castle and the sky’s twilight colors had been replaced with a  deep royal blue and a few clusters of premature stars. Looking farther  down the path, her eye came across an unexpected sight: Prince Zoicite  humming to himself on a marble bench. In his hands he held a stem of  hyacinths, twisting it between his fingers and staring dazedly at their  little purple petals.

Andrew had noticed the young man, too, and cleared his throat to alert  the prince to their presence. Zoicite, however, did not notice them, so  lost was he in his thoughts.

“Prince Zoicite?” Serena called quietly, and when there was no  response, called again. Finally, the prince glanced up, looking as if  he had been roughly awoken from a good dream. He immediately composed  himself and jumped to his feet, hiding the flower behind his back and  bowing low to Serena and Andrew.

“Mi’Lady, and Sir, a pleasant evening to you both,” he said, the  words rolling easily as if he had been born saying them. Serena smiled  and curtsied as well as she could.

“A pleasant evening, indeed,” the elf chirped. “May we perhaps join  you for a moment?”

It looked very much like Zoicite wanted to decline the offer, but he  instead nodded and took a seat on the far end of the bench, making room  for both of them. Serena sat beside him, but Andrew claimed a patch of  grass directly across the little path.

“That was a beautiful song you were humming,” Serena said as Zoicite  once again began twirling the flower in his lap.

“Thank you,” he replied hoarsely, and already his eyes seemed to find  something very interesting in the path, his expression showing no sign  that he even knew that Serena and Andrew were still there. Serena  shifted uncomfortably and looked at Andrew. He was frowning and  shrugged at Serena, suggesting that this was odd behavior for the  prince.

“Prince Zoicite, I do not mean to pry,” Andrew began gently, trying  to lean forward into Zoicite’s line of vision, “but you have been  acting rather odd since you returned this afternoon. Is there anything  that we might be able to help with? Or that you would like to talk  about?”

Zoicite looked at the elf for a long time, before throwing the flower  aside and burying his face into both palms with a frustrated groan.  Serena shrunk back, wondering if Andrew had said something wrong, but  then Zoicite began talking.

“Yes, I think it would do me well to talk to someone about it, though  I don’t know where to begin. It’s a strange story,” he started,  raising his eyes to stare up at the dark, cloudless horizon. “But I  think… I think I’ve fallen in love.”

Chapter 8: The Curse of Briar Rose
Without greeting anyone or looking around, the witch cried out
with a loud voice, “In her fifteenth year the princess shall prick
herself with a spindle and fall down dead!”
from Brier Rose

The moon had crept up over the castle walls as Serena, Andrew, and  Zoicite sat in the gardens. The prince fixated his gaze on it as he  eagerly told the story of what had happened during the hunt he and  Endymion had just returned from, as if he’d wanted to tell it for a  long time but had had no one to confide in.

“It happened the third night after we had set out,” he began. “We  had gone north and were a few miles southeast of the kingdom of Obelia.  It was mid-afternoon and the men had just stopped to rest and take  lunch, but I was restless and so I left the group for a while. I didn’ t plan on being gone for long. I thought I’d just to go for a short  walk and see what I could find. And I’m sure I hadn’t gotten far from  the group when I heard. . . .” he paused, his eyes glazing over,  “singing.

“But it wasn’t just—I mean, there’s no way to describe it. This  singing—it wasn’t a song I’d ever heard before, and the voice . . .  was the most beautiful sound. No, beautiful doesn’t begin to describe  it.” He inhaled a deep breath, shaking the sound from his head, “So I  followed it. It sounded like a girl, but was too heavenly. I thought  perhaps an angel or a nymph. I even thought it might be some evil  sorceress in the woods, but the sound was far too pure for me to  believe that. I must have walked for a mile or two or three until I  came to a large field full of sticker bushes. In the center was a tower —that was where the singing was coming from. From a single window in  the very top of that tower. I was entranced by it, completely  enchanted, so I walked all around the base of the tower, but there was  no door, no stairs, not even a ladder. I must have searched over every  stone, but there was nothing, I’m quite sure of it. Then I heard  footsteps, so I hid and watched as an old, ugly woman walked up to the  tower. She was a small woman, covered in wrinkles and with deep sunken  eyes, but there was something about her stride and stature that  frightened me. She stopped beneath the tower’s window and called out,  ‘Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your hair, that I may climb the lovely  stair.’ The singing stopped and a moment later a waterfall of thick  hair of the strangest color I’ve ever seen cascaded out of the window.  It looked blue in the sunlight, almost the same color as the sky, and  it tumbled almost to the ground. Then the old woman climbed up it,  quick and nimble as an elf. She disappeared into the window and I heard  nothing for a long time.” He sighed. “It was getting dark then, so I  returned to the hunting party. I told them all that I’d been tracking  a doe, but it had gotten away.” Zoicite shrugged, picking up the  purple hyacinth again. “And now I can’t get the singing out of my  head. It’s all I can think about. It’s in my dreams, waking and  sleeping. I hear it in the wind and in the birds’ songs. I’m  surrounded by it. Perhaps she was an enchantress after all.”

“No,” Serena said, grabbing Zoicite’s hand. “Maybe she’s just a  beautiful girl with a beautiful voice. And maybe it was destiny that  you heard her, and now you must go rescue her from the evil witch that  keeps her imprisoned in that tower.”

Zoicite gave her a strange look and stopped twirling the flower. Before  he could respond, Andrew added enthusiastically, “Of course, it could  very well be true love, Prince Zoicite. Surely if this voice has so  enchanted you, one can only imagine what the whole girl would do.”

“But I didn’t even see her.”

“But wouldn’t you like to?” Serena asked.

The prince didn’t answer for a long time, just stared at Serena and  Andrew before slightly shrugging his shoulders. “Yes,” he admonished.  “I’ve painted a million pictures of her in my mind, and have tried  desperately to try and draw what I see,” he gestured to a thick pad of  paper and a few sticks of charcoal beside him that Serena hadn’t  before noticed, “but it eludes me. I can’t possibly portray a woman  gorgeous enough to possess that angelic voice. And that hair.” He  hesitated. “Do you suppose Rapunzel is her name?”

Serena nodded. “Certainly it is.”

“A strange name. Strange and beautiful.”

“You must go find her again. You must save her!” Serena prodded. She  could tell that Zoicite was trying to disagree, but knew that her  suggestion was one he had been dwelling on heavily before.

“But what if she’s not a prisoner? What if she likes the tower?”

Serena gave him an exasperated look. “Would you like being locked up  in a tower with no stairs and no door? And would you like some old  woman to come and climb up your hair every day?”

Zoicite shook his head. “No, I guess you’re right. But . . . it’s  foolish. I don’t even know the girl! What if she isn’t smart or  charming or kind?”

“But what if she is? What if she is really the girl of your dreams?”  Andrew pointed out, and Serena realized just why he had been made the  Guardian of Romance. “Will you let her slip from your grasp?”

Zoicite fidgeted uncertainly.

“Besides,” Serena continued, “just because you rescue her doesn’t  mean you have to marry her.” She said it to ease his mind, though she  knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that he would want to marry her once he  had met Rapunzel, for of course he was the prince in the story.

This must be his tale.

Soon, a small smile spread over Zoicite’s face, as if he had finally  made his decision, and was quite happy with it. “Yes, you’re right.  Both of you. I will go and rescue her! I have to, or what kind of  prince would I be? And supposing she is my one and only, my other half,  how silly have I been to ever think otherwise?” He quickly stood from  the bench, gathering up his paper and charcoal. “It’s decided. I’ll  leave first thing in the morning.”

“Be careful!” Serena called to Zoicite as he swept off toward the  castle. When she turned back to Andrew, he was watching her with a  proud grin.

“We were wrong to ever doubt you. You are indeed the Chosen One. Hota  will be glad when she hears about this.”

Serena was about to refute, but decided not to. After all, she had  convinced one prince to do what he was supposed to, and it wasn’t even  that hard. Maybe she wasn’t too bad at this after all. “Just Hota?  You don’t think Seiya will be happy too?”

Andrew laughed. “Doubtful. He’s rarely happy. And besides, there hasn ’t been any tragedy in this story—yet.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The girl stepped out onto her balcony, tying her hair at the nape of  her neck with a large ribbon. The ribbon was long and abused, its  frayed ends whipping against her face in the windy night. With a sigh  no one heard, she leaned against the railing, staring only for a moment  at the overcast night sky, before lowering her gaze to the forest below  her. The trees reached up toward her like fingers of a friend she had  known all her life but could never reach out to. They spread out into  the familiar landscape, fading into the horizon’s shadows. She watched  as the wind teased them and tugged at the crimson and gold leaves,  sending them silently to the hidden forest floor. She watched the last  stray bird glide into a nest hidden down beneath the boughs to perch,  safely concealed, for the night. She watched as a streak of moon wash  broke through the clouds and lit upon the trees’ fingertips, before  being pulled roughly back up to heaven, leaving nothing but darkness.

She watched and watched until her arms were covered in gooseflesh and  the cotton shawl around her shoulders could no longer keep out the  autumn cold, and still she saw no face in the bushes. No mysterious,  shy, beautiful eyes peering back up at her from the foliage. She did  not begin to sing, afraid to disturb the quiet taunting of the  wilderness laid out at her feet, and instead turned back into her room.  The only room she had ever known. Tossing her shawl aside, she crawled  beneath quilts and feathers and closed her eyes, seeing once again the  face that had haunted her for nearly a week. The face that she feared  she had only imagined into being, but that she couldn’t give the  credit to her mind for such a lovely thing. It was a face like none  other she had ever seen, no deer or badger or possum or bear in the  wood had ever had such a face, and she could only think of one word to  describe it, though she knew not if it was accurate. It was a word that  her memory had conjured back from the bedtime tales her keeper had told  her years before, of a certain creature she did not even know truly  existed. Surely, she had never seen one in the trees, the air, or the  river that ran swiftly in early spring. Bur perhaps, now she had.

She fell asleep thinking it.

Prince.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena awoke with a start, her stomach gnawing in distress and a light  sweat on her brow. Images from her nightmare stood in her mind, vivid  and harsh, before receding into the depths of allusive sleep. She sat  in her bed, trying to pull the images back and push them away at the  same time, her mind sifting through warnings, horrors, and the familiar  tale of a maiden trapped in a tower.

Swinging her legs off the bed, she threw a cloak over her nightgown and  ran barefoot into the hallway. Already, the sun’s first rays were  working their way over the horizon and into the crystal windows of the  castle. As she made her way to the kitchen, realizing she had no clue  where any of the princes’ personal chambers were but hoping to find  someone who could tell her, her mind continued to echo with the last  tendrils of the dream.

A prince climbing into the tower on the hair of a beautiful maiden,  only to be met by the cruel grin of a witch. A knife tight in one fist,  the golden hair-rope in the other. A stab, a cry, a fall. Brambles  clawing at the cloak. The skin. The horrified, bloodied eyes.

Serena didn’t realize she’d been running until she skidded around a  corner and collided into the towering form of Prince Endymion. He  impulsively reached out to steady her as she took a startled step  backward.

“Good morning,” he said awkwardly, eyeing the girl’s flustered  expression.

“Zoicite,” Serena managed between gasps.

“No, I’m Endymion. Remember, the one you—”

“No, where is he? Prince Zoicite—I need to see him immediately.”

Endymion furrowed his brow and removed his supportive arm, shrugging.  “He left.”

“Left? Left where? It’s barely dawn!”

“He was up before the rooster this morning, with breakfast, a saddled  horse, and off to the north. Some servants saw him go, though he didn’ t say where he was off to. What do you need him for?”

“No! He can’t be gone already!” Serena wailed, clutching the cloak  tightly around her waist. “I have to warn him. He’s in danger!”

The prince frowned, his disinterest turning to concern. “Danger? What  do you mean? Do you know where he’s going?”

“Yes, but it’s a long story! Please, I have to go find him.”

“There’s no way. He left over an hour ago, and in a bit of a hurry I ’m told. He’ll be miles away by now. Even with the fastest horse, we  couldn’t catch him until the evening, and that’s assuming he’ll stop  to camp for the night. By the way, where is he going?”

“Up to where you were hunting. Or around there.”

“All the way up there? But that’s nearly to Obelia. Why is he going  back there?”

Serena sighed, her shoulders drooping. “Oh, it’s all my fault,” she  muttered. “If I hadn’t suggested . . . . If I’d thought it through .  . . . But I’d completely forgotten!”

Endymion gave her another strange look and then glared, his eyes  burrowing holes into her. “You say my brother has gone north and is in  danger. Explain. What did he tell you and how do you know he’s in  trouble? What kind of trouble is he in? And who are you to know these  things?”

She looked up, startled, from her trance. The tone carried on Endymion ’s voice was one she had heard before—rarely, but identically—in  that of Darien Shields. It was a voice demanding answers, refusing to  be reasoned with until his concern and curiosity were thoroughly  sedated. She took a cautious step backward, unsure of how much she  could, or should, tell him. Her mind still rang with Zoicite’s scream  and the horrifically loud breaking of thorn branches.

But Serena was rescued from Endymion’s penetrating stare by another  deep voice.

“She is a guest in this castle and she knows these things because she  watches and listens: a pastime it might not hurt for you to try once in  awhile, Your Majesty.” Serena looked over her shoulder to see Seiya  approaching in long but slow strides. His black hair, freed from its  ponytail, fell in waves around his shoulders. His scowl, though still  intense and foreboding, seemed to now carry the slightest hint of  amusement—though it vanished when the light from the windows hit his  face.

“Seiya,” Endymion admonished with a curt nod, ignoring the insult. “ Why are you up so early?”

Cocking his head to one side, Seiya replied, “Why are you?”

In the sudden presence of Seiya’s sinister expression, the thought  struck Serena that there were three residents of the castle that could  perhaps help her to protect Zoicite: the three guardians.

“Seiya!” she said, interrupting the trite exchange between him and  the prince. “I’m so glad you’re here! Zoicite—”

“—is fine.”

She paused. “No, but—”

“Prince Zoicite is fine, Lady Serena. He is precisely where he is  supposed to be, doing precisely what he is supposed to be doing.”

“No, you don’t see. In the story . . .”

“Yes, Lady Serena, let us not forget the story. And all ingredients  thereof.” He turned his dark eyes on her, a heavy and wise look. She  hesitated, glancing at the tattooed teardrop beneath his left eye.

“Tragedy,” she whispered.

“Indeed.”

“Pardon me,” Endymion interrupted with all the coolness of a volcano  that has waited centuries to erupt. “But this is my brother we’re  talking about and if something is endangering him, I think I have the  right to know.”

“You have the right to nothing but fancy meals and a large dowry,”  Seiya drawled, slipping one hand into a pocket. “But if you must know,  Serena was suffering from a bit of a nightmare. I assure you Prince  Zoicite will be fine.”

Endymion, unconvinced, turned to Serena. “Is this true?”

But rather than answer him, Serena turned fully to Seiya. “Look, I don ’t know what I’m doing. Are you sure this is how things are supposed  to happen? How do we know I haven’t made a mistake?”

For a brief moment, it looked as though Seiya would smile down on her,  but his lips only twitched. Twice. Brushing past the girl, he continued  down the hall in his measured paces. “We have faith.”

After Seiya had turned the corner and his footsteps were no longer  heard, Serena faced Endymion’s skeptical glare. She gulped,  uncomfortably folding her arms over her chest, and slowly answered his  question. “It’s true, I did have a nightmare,” she mumbled. “And I ’m sure… I’m sure Zoicite is fine.”

The prince stood doubtful, but his glare softened.

“Then why do you appear so worried?”

“It was a very bad dream.” Holding tightly to the front of her cloak,  Serena tried a curtsy. “I’m sorry to have worried you. If you’ll  excuse me, I think I’m going to go back to bed.”

“Lady Serena, if it pleases you,” Endymion said sternly, but not  angrily, stopping her mid-turn, “I had actually hoped I might have the  chance to talk to you for a bit. Would it be too bold if I asked you to  accompany me for breakfast?”

Serena hesitated, her eyes searching the prince’s, almost Darien’s.  For the first time she noticed that he was already dressed and shaven  and showed no signs of exhaustion on his face. Darien, too, had always  seemed most awake and invigorated during their morning classes. “Okay,  since I’m already awake.”

She silently followed him down the hall, watching the floor glow pink  in the sun’s first streams of light. The dining hall was empty save a  few servants setting out empty plates and shining silverware. The looks  on their faces made it seem as though they’d been awake for hours, and  a cute round woman greeted Endymion and Serena with a cheery smile.

“Good morning! We have some sausage links on the fire already.  Pancakes, Prince Endymion? Anything special you would like, darling?”  she asked, folding a few napkins for the elaborate place settings.

Endymion grunted his approval and pulled a chair out from the table for  Serena. She sat down nervously and folded her hands in her lap as the  prince claimed his own seat across from her.

“Captain Crunch?” Serena asked. The woman looked at her blankly,  before raising a curious eyebrow at Endymion. He shrugged.

Sighing, Serena said, “Never mind. Pancakes would be wonderful.”

The woman smiled again. “In a moment.”

She scurried away, the tails of her apron swaying behind her.

“Pancakes are your favorite for breakfast?” Serena asked when they  were alone again.

Endymion nodded, his blue eyes watching her closely. “There’s nothing  better.”

“Darien always got pancakes in the cafeteria when they had them, too. ”

“Who?”

Serena shook her head. “No one.”

“The boy I remind you of?” he pressed. “The boy you mistook me for  yesterday?”

Blushing, Serena couldn’t help but remember the embarrassing moments  of the previous evening. “Yes, him.”

“His name is Darien?”

She nodded.

“And where is he now?”

“Oh, probably at home. In fact, he’s probably sitting in his dining  room, eating pancakes.”

The prince smiled lopsidedly as the maid returned carrying two platters  full of pancakes and sausage. “Anything else, darlings?”

“No, thank you.”

She skittered back toward the kitchen as Endymion began to drench his  breakfast in syrup. A dish between them was full of thick, creamy  peanut butter and he scooped some of that as well onto his pancakes,  before devouring them in large bites. Watching him, Serena’s stomach  flipped, and she forced herself to look away and focus on her own food.

“Yes, eating pancakes with maple syrup and peanut butter.”

Endymion paused for a moment, but continued eating without looking up  at her. “And where is home?”

“In a land far, far away.”

Endymion’s eyes flickered toward her, a hint of a smile on his face.  “Malachite told me about the dwarf man, the one who tried to take my  niece, and how you stopped him. How did you know his name?”

“Is that what you wanted to talk to me about?”

“Maybe,” he said mysteriously through a mouth full of sausage.

“A lucky guess, perhaps.”

Endymion chuckled, washing the meat down with a few gulps of pulpy  orange juice. “One doesn’t pull a name like Rumpelstiltskin out of  thin air. Really, how did you know?”

Serena thought back to the story, in which a servant had overheard  Rumpelstiltskin proclaim his name in a song. “I heard him singing it.  I was taking a walk the night before and heard him singing about  tricking the princess and keeping her firstborn child if she couldn’t  guess his name. It was luck that I was happening by at that moment.”

Endymion analyzed her silently for a moment and she wondered if he  could see right through her lies—she’d often been told that she was a  horrid liar. If he did, though, he said nothing and poured himself  another glass of juice. Serena finished her first pancake and drizzled  syrup onto the second one.

“Now I have a question for you, if you don’t mind.”

He tilted his head, signaling her to continue.

“I heard you’re getting married in a week. Is that true?”

He returned his gaze to his breakfast. “It is true that I am betrothed  and that the scheduled wedding date is in one week. Whether or not I  actually do get married in a week, well, you’ll have to ask me again  in eight days.”

Serena furrowed her brow. “And just why wouldn’t you?”

“It’s complicated. A foreigner may not understand, and I wouldn’t  want to bore you with the politics of our kingdom on your first visit. ”

“How do you know I’m a foreigner?”

“Well, you wouldn’t be staying in the castle if you had a home right  outside its walls, now would you?”

“Sure I would. I get pampered and treated so nicely here.”

Endymion grinned. “Plus your accent is like none I’ve ever heard  before. Your home must be far, far away indeed.”

Frowning, Serena shoveled a few forkfuls into her mouth. Though she’d  noticed the very regal way of speaking that many of the kingdom’s  residents had, she hadn’t realized how different she might sound to  someone born and raised there. “I’m still curious as to why you may  not marry this girl.”

His grin quickly fading, Endymion began to draw designs in the leftover  syrup on his plate with the edge of his fork. “It’s possible that the  princess will be unconscious during our wedding ceremony.”

“Unconscious?” she said with a barking laugh, but her amusement  quickly faded at Endymion’s overly serious expression.

“Yes. I told you, it’s complicated.”

“Well, then, start from the beginning. Who is she?”

He sighed, looking suddenly bored with the conversation, but answered  anyway, “Briar Rose, the only princess of Obelia.”

“The kingdom to the north?”

He nodded.

“You don’t seem very enthralled by her.”

“It isn’t my place nor duty to be enthralled by her.”

“But you’re going to marry her.” Serena paused, frowning. “Don’t  you like her?”

“I only met her once, years ago. I was so young I barely remember, and  she was only a baby.”

“And you don’t think you’ll like her?”

Endymion rolled his eyes. “She’s a princess. They’re all the same.  Pretty, polite, and cursed.”

“Cursed?”

Endymion pushed his plate away, his fork clattering on the ceramic.  “You really must be a foreigner if you don’t know about the curse of  Briar Rose.”

“What kind of a curse?” Serena asked, though she was already sure she  knew exactly what kind of curse it would be.

Clearing his throat, Endymion proclaimed in a deeply serious,  reverberating tone, “During her fifteenth year, the princess will  prick her finger on a spinning wheel and fall into a deep sleep, only  to be awakened by the virgin kiss of her true love.” Dropping the  prophetic voice, Endymion shook his head. “Dramatic, right? Placed on  her at birth by Queen Beryl of the land of Cashlin. Well, except the  sleeping part; that was added in later. Anyhow, she only has six days  left of her fifteenth year and the curse has yet to be fulfilled, so  you can see how she might possibly sleep through her own wedding, which  probably won’t bode well for the honeymoon. Are you all right?”

Serena nodded vigorously, realizing that she had been mindlessly  mashing her pancakes to bits with her fork. “But of course she won’t  still be asleep. True love’s kiss will awaken her.”

It took a long moment of silence, Endymion’s eyes staring  expressionlessly into hers, before the tiniest smile tilted the corners  of his lips. “Yes,” he acknowledged, “of course.”

“Lady Serena,” buzzed Hota, a blur of gold and crimson floating into  the room. The Guardian of Drama perched on the edge of the table,  eyeing the mess of dishes distastefully. “I’m sorry to interrupt, but  your services are requested beyond the south entrance. There’s been a  . . . disturbance.” With a huge red-lipped grin, she bowed to Prince  Endymion. “I hope you won’t mind if I take her away for the  afternoon?”

Looking at the fairy speculatively, Endymion shrugged his shoulders. “ Certainly not. She seems to be quite the popular new guest. I hope you  all aren’t suffocating her.”

“Goodness, no,” Hota chirped. “She’s far too pretty to turn blue.  Come along, then, Serena. Good day, Your Highness.”

Serena stood as Hota fluttered out toward the hallway, Endymion also  rising with a shallow bow.

“Thank you for keeping me company, Lady Serena.”

“Please, contrary to popular belief, I’m hardly a lady,” Serena  said.

“I understand. The princely title never suited me, either.”

Serena grinned and curtsied. “Good day, then.”

Endymion returned the smile, but his eyes never stopped analyzing her  expressions and movements as she left the room. With a long, deep  intake of breath, he fell back into his chair and ran a hand through  his thick black hair.

“Your services are requested beyond the south entrance?” he mimicked  curiously. “Who are you, really, Serena from far, far away?”

Chapter 9: Little Red Riding Hood
Just as Little Red Cap entered the wood, a wolf met her. Red Cap did
not know what a wicked creature he was, and was not at all afraid of  him.
From Little Red Cap

Serena followed Hota through the marble hallway toward the castle’s  south entrance. Through the huge wall of glass she could see the red- tiled roofs of the city and, beyond those, the golden wheat fields  stretching to the horizon. Her mind rolled over her conversation with  Endymion. Prince Endymion.

Prince Endymion who was betrothed to Briar Rose. Or the princess more  commonly referred to as Sleeping Beauty.

But even as an awkward wave of jealousy tried to creep into her  thoughts, Serena forced herself to squash it down. What did she have to  be jealous of? Okay, so she had a little bit of a crush on Darien  Shields, but that was perfectly normal. Every girl at Crossroads High  had a crush on Darien Shields. What was there not to like? Between his  painful good looks and effortless wit and intelligence and how he was  always polite to everyone (even Melvin), he could very well have been  the last perfect boy in the world. And besides that, Darien, despite  his intense desirability, flirtatious persona, and the abundance of  girls prostrating themselves before him daily, had never really dated.  Serena knew—she’d paid attention, and any information that was lost  on her would certainly be picked up by Detective Melvin. Sure, Darien  would take a girl to a dance from time to time, and once he’d gone for  sundaes with Cheryl Kingstone. But, while Serena had fumed at the idea  and, yes, cried when the anger wore off, to her knowledge the date had  never been repeated.

But the fact that this prince looked and talked and acted and ate like  Darien, didn’t make him Darien. And just because he was betrothed to  someone else didn’t justify this spark of envy Serena was busy  smothering. If anything, she knew that she should be happy for him.  After all, the tale of Sleeping Beauty had always been one of her  favorites, so it was only fitting that Prince Endymion should play the  living role, right? And it would be wonderful to see him live happily  ever after, she tried to tell herself.

But then there was something lurking even beneath the jealousy.  Something that felt awkward and irregular. Something about the  inflection of Endymion’s voice when he had talked about his fiancé, or  the look in his eyes when Serena had pressed for more information, or  the way he slumped just a little bit when he’d mentioned his first  impression of Princess Briar Rose.

Maybe it was simply the fact that there was a Darien Shields–clone in  this world at all that was unsettling her. What would cause such a  thing? Could her world and the fairy-tale world be somehow mirrored? If  she searched hard enough, could she find a Melvin counterpart, or  living replicas of her mother, her schoolmates, her teachers? Or was  there a Mina and Malachite, or a Luna and Artemis, roaming the cities  of her dimension—ignorant of their folktale twins?

It was too odd to comprehend and though Serena rolled the questions  over and over in her head, she knew that she was no closer to finding  any answers. The fact of the matter was that something just didn’t  feel right, and Serena hated not knowing what it was. She swore  silently to find out.

“How did you enjoy your meal?” Hota asked, glancing back at Serena  over her beating wings.

Pulled roughly from her thoughts, Serena shrugged. “Delicious.”

“And the company?”

She lowered her gaze and uncomfortably shrugged again.

“I trust after talking with the youngest prince, you realize he has no  relation to this ‘Darien’ of yours.”

Serena didn’t answer for a long time, finally responding, “Yes, I  realize that he is not the Darien I know, but that doesn’t change the  fact that they are remarkably similar.”

With a thoughtful hum, Hota came to perch on Serena’s shoulder,  resting her wings. “Lady Serena, I, of course, do not have Andrew’s  spectacular gift and knowledge in the department of romance, but even  an old godmother like me can realize you are hiding something of your  feelings. You were quite taken with this Darien from your world, weren ’t you?”

Serena felt the beginning of a blush and for once didn’t try to hide  or prevent it. The conflicting memories of Darien’s teasing smile and  Prince Endymion’s speculative, untrusting gaze made her heart tumble.  “Lots of girls are quite taken with Darien. But there’s nothing… I  mean, he doesn’t even know I exist, other than as the girl who always  asks to borrow a pencil.”

“But of course, child.”

Desiring to change the subject, Serena said solemnly, “I noticed that  Prince Endymion didn’t seem very excited to be marrying Princess Briar  Rose. In fact, he seemed almost… repulsed by the idea of marrying her.  Well, okay, repulsed might be a little strong, but still, I’m worried.  Are you sure they’re in love?”

“Oh, dear, they’ve only met once. Such things take time.”

Serena frowned. “Not in fairy tales, they don’t.”

The fairy laughed. “Don’t tell me you’re jealous already! I realize  the prince is a charmer, but you’ve barely just met him!”

“No, I’m not jealous! I’m just . . . worried. I’m supposed to make  sure all the stories work out all right, but it will be difficult for  Endymion to save the princess from her curse if he isn’t in love with  her. I just thought it would do to make sure, that’s all.”

“Well, if he isn’t yet, he will be by the time that needle pricks  her. Andrew will be sure of that. He’s quite good at what he does.”

“And he has me to help him.”

“You don’t think your feelings will get in the way?”

Serena glared at the pixie’s smug grin. “What feelings? You said  yourself, I just met him. He isn’t the Darien I—” Pausing, she  sighed and rolled her eyes. “My point is, if he is to have his  sleeping beauty, then he will have her and live happily ever after. I  will see to that!” Turning a corner, Serena’s determination suddenly  waned at a new thought. “By the way, what exactly is this disturbance  you need me for?”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“Over the hill, and through the woods, to Grandmother’s house we go, ” Hota sang, flying effortlessly along the tiny forest trail that  Serena had trouble discerning was even a trail, so overgrown was it  with brush and thorns and twigs that stuck in her hair.

“Hota, couldn’t you have warned me we were going to be trekking  through the forest? I would have liked to have changed, at least. Ugh,  these slippers are ruined.”

Smiling innocently, the fairy paused on a branch and turned back to  Serena. “There wasn’t time for that, Chosen One.”

“Fine, but you couldn’t have let me grab a cloak or something?”

“Hush, I think I hear her.”

“Hear who?” Serena snapped.

Hota didn’t answer and Serena was forced to hold her irritation in  check and listen for herself. A moment later her ears picked up a  gentle humming from deeper within the forest. Before she could repeat  her question, the guardian had flown off toward the sound, leaving  Serena to stumble through the brush by herself.

Finally, her legs bleeding and the skirt of her nightgown ripped to  shreds, Serena came upon a recognizable path. With a long, deep breath,  she crouched miserably against a tree and tried to pick stray leaves  out of her hair while the humming grew louder. A moment later, a small,  round-faced girl with bouncing red curls and big blue eyes came around  the path’s bend wearing a red hooded cloak and carrying a basket full  to the brim with wildflowers.

Serena stood up, watching as the girl walked along, apparently lost in  her daydreams. Hota could be seen perched secretly on a branch off to  Serena’s side.

Suddenly, the girl noticed Serena standing there in all her torn,  shredded, and bloody glory, and smiled the biggest, friendliest smile  Serena could imagine.

“Good morning!” the girl chirped. “My name is Chibi Chibi, but  everybody calls me Little Red Riding Hood because of this cloak that my  grandmother made for me that I never take off—well, except when I go  to bed, because it would be silly to sleep in a cloak, don’t you  think? I’m off to visit her now—my grandmother, that is—because she ’s ill and I have bread and wine to make her better. But the flowers  in these woods are so lovely that I simply had to stop and pick some  and now I’m afraid I might be late. But I don’t think Grandmother  will mind, especially once she sees all the daisies and violets and  these little red flowers that I don’t know the name of. How could  anyone be upset when they see such beautiful things? How is your  morning so far?”

Serena gawked at the girl, and suddenly the whole story of Little Red  Riding Hood made so much more sense. This girl was so trusting and  innocent it was sickening—no wonder the wolf had had no trouble  gobbling her up.

“It’s… swell.”

Chibi Chibi’s eyes fluttered happily. “That’s wonderful! Why are you  in your nightgown? Are you a sleepwalker? My papa used to sleepwalk all  the time. Some mornings we would wake up—my mom and me—and Papa  wouldn’t be there so we would go looking for him and find him asleep  in the barn with his shoes on the wrong feet and a jacket on backwards,  and he never knew just how he’d gotten there. Strange, isn’t it? But  you certainly look like you could use a cloak. Perhaps if my  grandmother has extra material, she’ll make you a red one, like mine,  and then we could pretend that we were sisters! Would you like to be  sisters?”

Serena grimaced and answered with as little sarcasm as she could,  “Well, it might be nice to have a little sister. Say, it’s kind of  dangerous in these woods. Why don’t I walk you the rest of the way to  your grandmother’s house? You know, big sisters are supposed to be  protective.”

“Oh, that would be lovely! I’ll tell you all about my mother and our  house and our garden and the little town where we sometimes go to buy  cakes and fabric . . .”

Serena forced a smile and fell into step beside the girl, casting a  glare back at Hota.

“. . . and shoes from the cobbler who swears that he doesn’t actually  make the shoes but that a group of elves come into his shop in the  middle of the night and make them for him. Isn’t that funny? I think  that if I were an elf, I wouldn’t waste my nights making shoes. I  think I would go dancing in the gardens and eating strawberries, but  then, maybe elves really like making shoes, just as much as I like  strawberries, though I couldn’t imagine why. I guess I’ll never know  until I meet an elf. Have you ever met an elf? I think I would make him  my best friend if I ever did meet one, but who’s ever met an elf? No  one I know. Oh! Except this one girl in my town who once said . . .”

By the time they reached Grandmother’s house, a headache was pounding  against Serena’s skull and she was beginning to wonder if the girl  ever breathed. Without hesitation, the girl knocked on the door of the  tiny one-room cottage.

“Who is it?”

“It’s me, Grandmother, Chibi Chibi, your Little Red Riding Hood. I’ ve brought bread and wine and daisies and violets and little red  flowers to make you feel better.”

“Come in, my dear.”

Chibi Chibi opened the door and they walked inside. The room had a  woodstove in one corner, a small dresser, a cupboard for dishes, and a  bed. Inside the bed lay an old woman wearing a white nightgown and a  white, lacy bonnet. Her nose was long, her ears tall and pointed, and  her face was covered with dark brown fur.

Serena stopped and raised an eyebrow at the cross-dressing wolf, then  cast a speculative look at Hota who was watching the scene with mute  curiosity, then down at the little girl. However, Chibi Chibi wasn’t  at her side anymore, but had already skipped toward the bed, basket in  hand.

“Good morning, Grandmother! Are you hungry? Mother and I baked some  delicious rosemary bread and I have a bottle of red wine which is  supposed to be good for a person’s red blood cell count and should  help you get better in a jiffy! Oh, dear Grandmother, your illness has  changed you. What big ears you have!”

“The better to hear you with, my dear.”

“And what big eyes you have!”

“The better to see you with, my dear.”

“And what a big nose you have!”

“The better to smell you with, my dear.”

“And what a big mouth you have!”

“The better to eat—”

“Alright, hold it!” Serena said, stepping into the conversation with  her arms open in exasperation. She turned to a startled Chibi Chibi. “ Are you blind? It’s a wolf! He’s a wolf! He doesn’t look anything  like your grandmother! At least, I really hope not. He’s probably  already eaten her and now he wants to eat you, too. I mean, cute and  naïve and innocent: fine. But let’s not be stupid about this.”

Chibi Chibi stared up at her through her large, glowing eyes. “But she ’s wearing my grandmother’s nightgown.”

Serena cast her eyes toward the ceiling in what could have been a  prayer for patience, then turned back to Hota who was watching the  whole thing with mild amusement.

“Okay. I’m tired and cranky and my feet hurt and this is ridiculous.  Can’t we just let him eat her? I mean, really, is anybody going to  care?”

A gasp made Serena look back at Chibi Chibi, who was shaking with fear -filled eyes looking over Serena’s shoulder. Turning, Serena saw that  the wolf had tossed aside the blankets and was standing on the bed,  towering over them in his white frock and bonnet, his fangs glittering  and his tongue dripping with drool.

Serena screamed and backed up, sheltering the little girl against the  wall.

“The better to eat you with, my dears!” the wolf finished.

“Oh, I don’t think so!” Serena said, grabbing the first weapon she  could get—a broom—and proceeding to beat the wolf over the head with  it as hard as she could.

The wolf cried out in pain and soon fell to the floor unconscious.

Heaving for breath, Serena dropped the broom and swiped her sleeve  across her sweaty forehead. “Told you so.”

“Oh, what has the big bad wolf done to my poor grandmother?”

“My first guess would be that he ate her.” As the girl’s eyes  quickly filled with tears, Serena amended, “But maybe not! Uh… he  could have hidden her in the shed. Why don’t you go look in there?”

“There’s a shed?”

“Yeah, she just had it installed last week. Now go!”

Nodding, the girl ran from the cottage. She could soon be heard calling  for her grandmother over and over, occasionally intermingled with  random tangents.

Serena looked at Hota. “Now what?”

The fairy shrugged back. “You tell me.”

“Well, in the story, the wolf eats the girl and the grandmother, but  then a huntsman shows up and cuts him open, setting them free. So…”  She noticed a pair of sewing scissors on the dresser and slowly picked  them up with shaking hands. “Er…” Approaching the wolf, she pushed  her toe into his side to make sure he wasn’t awake. “Um… Here, you  do it!” she said, thrusting the scissors toward the fairy.

Hota scoffed. “How, exactly, do you want me to do that? The scissors  are bigger than I am.”

Scrunching her face up in distaste, Serena nodded and slowly lowered  the scissors toward the wolf’s belly. “I can’t believe I’m doing  this,” she muttered. “I better get a raise.”

“We’re not paying you.”

“You should be.”

“Oh, come now. Isn’t this all very exciting?”

“Maybe to a med-student.”

“I found her!” Serena stopped, the point of the scissors pressing  gently into the wolf’s gut, and looked toward the door. There stood  Chibi Chibi holding the hand of an old woman. “She was in the shed,  just like you said!”

Blinking, Serena dropped the scissors and stood up. She opened her  mouth as if to protest the impossibility and confess that she’d made  up the whole thing about a shed in the first place, but decided against  it.

“Oh. That’s nice.” She looked at Hota, who seemed to be just as  surprised as she was. “Well then, I’m done here, and I’m going home.  I guess we’ll, um… send someone to collect the body.” But on her way  out, she stopped and kneeled before Chibi Chibi, taking her by the  shoulders. “What have you learned today, Chibi Chibi?”

“Um…” Chibi Chibi looked up in deep thought for a moment, before a  smile spread across her face, “Don’t stray from the path to pick  wildflowers or your grandmother might get eaten?”

Serena hesitated, before patting the girl on the head. “Close enough. ”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“What happened to you?”

Serena froze in the castle hallway that she’d thought was empty and  turned to see Prince Endymion leaning against a wall and eyeing her  with combined concern and amusement.

She looked down at herself—the beautiful white nightgown silt-covered  and full of holes, the slippers that were hopelessly ruined now  dangling from a hand while her feet were covered in mud and scratches.  She took a moment to pull a twig from her long, un-brushed hair, before  smiling sardonically at the prince.

“Why, whatever do you mean?” Rolling her eyes, she turned and started  marching back toward her room.

“Hey, wait! You’re getting blood on the carpet.”

“Gee, I’m so dreadfully sor-ryyy!” Serena screeched as she was  suddenly lifted into the air. She instinctively dropped the slippers  and wrapped her arms around Endymion’s neck as he carried her down the  hallway. His expression was perfectly neutral, but Serena recognized a  proud, taunting glint in his blue eyes. “What are you doing?”

“Saving the poor maids from the back-breaking effort it would take to  wash that blood from the carpet.”

Serena tried to protest, but could think of nothing to say. Grumbling,  she pulled her arms back and folded them angrily over her chest. “You  could have just brought me a pair of shoes.”

Endymion laughed. “Ah, but this is much more enjoyable.” Delighting  at the blush creeping into the girl’s cheeks, he continued, “So last  I saw you, you were being ushered away by Aysel’s favorite flying  resident because your ‘services were needed.’ Now, that was nearly  eight hours ago, and if I recall correctly, you were dressed in your  nightgown then, too, but . . . I think it was still in one piece.”

“Your powers of observation astound me,” she said sarcastically, her  crabbiness making it easy to cover up her fluttering nerves and  heartbeats with humorless retorts.

As they passed a servant busy cleaning draperies, Endymion instructed  them, “Have a bath drawn in Lady Serena’s quarters, with plenty of  healing salts, and bring arnica and calendula ointment.”

The servant bowed and scurried away.

“Do people always do exactly what you tell them to?”

Endymion quirked an eyebrow. “Of course. You haven’t known many  princes, have you?”

“No, and I think I’ll be happy to never meet another one after this. ”

Endymion laughed and Serena could feel the resonation in her chest.  Almost against her will, she let her head collapse onto his shoulder,  the exhaustion from trumping through the woods catching up with her now  that she found herself in a safe, warm place. Her mouth ran suddenly  dry as she thought with mild irony that one of her most constant  fantasies was coming true—Darien Shields was holding her. Like a  bride. Or a princess.

She bit her tongue to keep from giggling, her irritation quickly  dissolving.

“So, really,” Endymion continued, his voice now soft and gentle,  “what happened? You know, I can order to have Hota’s head chopped off  if she’s mistreating you.”

Serena’s smile widened and she raised her drowsy eyes up to meet his.  “You’d do that for me?”

“Oh, sure. Anything for our honored guest,” he said with a wink.

After pretending to consider the idea, Serena nodded. “I’ll keep that  in mind.”

“While you’re thinking about it, why don’t you tell me what happened  today? You look like you’ve been hiking through the Haunted Woods.”

Her eyes widened. “There are haunted woods?”

He laughed. “Well, that’s what people say, but no one’s gone in  there for many years, so who knows? Now, if Hota really dragged you in  there, I’d have her beheaded for sure. It’s supposedly suicide.”

“Ah, well, no. No haunted woods—yet. Just your normal homicidal,  hungry wolf and ignorant damsel in distress. You know, the usual  afternoon activities.”

Endymion frowned, but Serena waved her hand airily as they reached her  room. “Never mind. I really don’t want to talk about it. Thanks for  the lift.”

“Any time.” He set her down on the bed and she expected him to leave,  but instead he pulled over a stool and began rolling up his sleeves.

“What are you doing?”

“Looking,” he mumbled, holding up her foot and analyzing one heel and  ankle and calf, before setting it down on the bed and picking up the  other one.

Serena scowled, trying to ignore the flustered feelings in her stomach.  “You just want an excuse to check out my legs.”

His lips quirked and his eyes flickered to hers for a moment before  returning to their examination. “How’d you know?” he asked  teasingly, before his voice became gentle again. “It doesn’t look too  serious. I think you’ll survive, but you really should get these cuts  cleaned up before they get infected.”

“Gee, a prince and a doctor? No wonder you’re such a heartbreaker.”

Grinning crookedly, he asked, “You think I’m a heartbreaker?”

“It was a joke.”

A gentle knock at the open door signaled the appearance of the servant  who had been washing draperies, carrying a tray with the herbs Endymion  had requested, a stack of bandages, and a pitcher of juice. The prince  thanked her and took the juice, pouring some into a clean glass while  the servant set about drawing a bath in the adjoining room.

“I can do that, you know. You’re acting like I have a broken leg.”

“Would you like me to check if you do?” he joked, reaching for her  calves again, but she quickly stuck her foot on his chest and pushed  him away. “No, thanks, I think I can handle it from here. Honestly, I  just want to take a bath and go to bed.”

“Well, I can help with either of those, too.”

Her face turned beet red and Serena wasn’t sure if she was supposed to  be angry or flattered by the comment, but Endymion’s abrupt laughter  saved her the trouble of deciding. “I was only kidding. Don’t have a  fit.”

“Who’s having a fit?” she spat, willing the blood away from her  cheeks.

“Come on, you look like an overgrown tomato right now.” Still  chuckling, he stood up and began rolling down his sleeves. “You know,  it’s okay to have a crush on me. Lots of girls do. I am a prince,  after all.”

“And you have the big head to prove it. For your information, I don’t  waste my time chasing after untouchable men.”

“Untouchable?”

“You’re engaged, remember?”

For a moment, Endymion looked startled, as if he actually had  forgotten, then he rolled his eyes. “Oh, that,” he murmured. “So I  want you to make sure to get all the dried blood washed off. Use soap  and water. And then you should rub some of this arnica and calendular  oil onto the scratches, but I wouldn’t put a bandage around them  unless they start bleeding again. They need to be able to breathe.”

Serena nodded, a little taken aback at how quickly his personality  could change and how adamantly he avoided the topic of his betrothal,  especially as the wedding date was less than two weeks away.

“Sure. Thanks,” she said, grateful when the maid came out and  informed them that the bath was ready.

Endymion nodded and thanked the girl again, who bowed deeply before  leaving the room.

“Want me to carry you to the bath?”

“No, I think I can handle it.”

The prince looked slightly disappointed, but Serena was sure he was  only pretending. With a nod, he headed for the door, turning once to  flash her a genuine smile. “Anything else I can do for Mi’lady?”

She went to shake her head, but then stopped. “Could you maybe have  some food sent up?”

“It would be my pleasure. Now, no more traipsing through the woods,  okay?”

“Tell that to the guardians.”

“I will,” he said assuredly, shutting the door behind him.

She sighed after him and began unbuttoning her nightgown. The prince  was something else, that was for sure. A little incorrigible, a little  charming, a little arrogant, and a little sweet.

And completely, tragically untouchable.

Chapter 10: Bluebeard
The floor was covered with blood, on which lay the bodies of several  dead women.
These were all the wives whom Bluebeard had married and murdered.
from Bluebeard

Cheerful birds were chirping outside Serena’s window when she woke up  late the next morning. With a yawn, she stretched her arms languidly  above her head and pushed her heels out beneath the warm covers, before  relaxing into the feather down mattress with a contented smile on her  lips.

“Now this is the life,” she purred, her golden hair splayed out on  the pillow. “No hungry wolfs, no stupid princes, no guardians, and no  responsibilities.”

A gentle knock at her door hardly startled Serena. Pulling the covers  up to her neck, she called, “Come in,” expecting to see a maid with a  tray full of breakfast food.

A maid did enter, but she was carrying nothing. Her hands had gathered  her apron nervously in front of her waist. “Your escort has asked to  see you, Mi’lady.”

Serena curiously propped herself up on her elbows. “My escort?”

The girl nodded, her cheeks flushed red. “Master Seiya, Mi’lady.”

“Oh, my escort from the ball.” Serena scrunched up her face. “What  does he want?”

“He did not say, Mi’lady.”

“Fine. Send him in.”

The girl curtsied and rushed out the door. A moment later, Seiya, the  Guardian of Tragedy, strolled into the room, his cool gaze settling on  Serena.

“Yes?” she asked when he didn’t immediately state the reason of his  visit.

“Get up. There is work to be done.”

Serena glowered at Seiya’s complete lack of manners.

“Work? Oh, no, I am taking the day off. Did Hota tell you what she  made me do yesterday? We had to go through the woods to save the  dumbest little girl you ever met from this very hungry wolf and…”

Pointedly ignoring her, Seiya turned back toward the door. “We’re  going into town, not the woods, and you are not taking the day off. Be  at the western gate in ten minutes.”

After he had gone, shutting the door behind him, Serena flopped onto  the pillows with a groan. “And just why should I?” she spat. “You  could at least say please or give me some indication of what you need,  but to just come in here and order me around is incredibly rude and I  won’t put up with this behavior. I deserve to be treated with respect,  especially from a person who understands my importance in this kingdom. ” She frowned, staring up at the ceiling. “Yeah, that’s what I  should have said.” With a sigh, she pushed the covers off and began  wondering what to wear. There was no way she was going out in her  pajamas two days in a row.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Twelve minutes later, Serena trotted out of the castle in satin  slippers with kitten heels, a long cotton eyelet skirt and a linen  blouse with lace sleeves. She smiled at Seiya, whose eyes swept over  her, unimpressed.

“You’re late.”

Her smile fell. “Well maybe next time you should consider giving me a  bit more time. You know, girls in my world take at least an hour to get  ready to go out on the town.”

He looked too exasperated to reply and gestured for her to get into a  carriage that was already hooked up to its horses with the driver  holding the reigns. Pursing her lips in agitation, Serena climbed in  and sat down, waiting for Seiya to enter behind her.

“You know, you could at least try to be a little friendlier. A  compliment wouldn’t kill you, you know.”

“At least you didn’t wear silk.”

“That’s not a compliment!”

He shrugged, his gaze watching the houses go by as the carriage started  moving down the bumpy road.

“Just because you’re the Guardian of Tragedy doesn’t mean you have  to act so damn tragic all the time,” Serena muttered, eyeing the tear  tattoo on his cheek. His expression remained so passive that she  wondered if maybe he just had very selective hearing. “And have you  ever considered carrying on a conversation? Come on, say something.  Tell me about yourself.”

His gray eyes flickered to hers. “No.”

Serena blinked at him a moment, before throwing her arms up in  surrender. “Fine! God forbid anyone try to be friends with you.”

“I wasn’t meant to make friends.”

“Well it doesn’t have to be your life’s purpose, but it could be an  added bonus, you know.”

His eyes darkened and the straight line of his lips softened the  slightest bit. “Lady Serena, you do not understand.”

“What don’t I understand?”

He sighed, almost whimsically, and leaned back. His charcoal gray eyes  fixed on the sky outside that, Serena noticed, was the same color that  day. “We guardians have a strange effect on the world around us. Our  trades follow us everywhere we go and impact everything we do and every  person we meet.”

“What do you mean?”

“Strange and exciting things tend to happen when Hota is nearby,  simply because of her presence. Strangers in Andrew’s vicinity are  more likely to experience love at first sight.”

Serena leaned forward, resting her elbows on her knees and furrowing  her brow in concern. “So for you…”

He nodded. “Tragedy follows wherever I go. It does not change  everything—good can happen as well, and in this world even the worst  of times can be turned to good with the wave of a magic wand. Plus, the  three guardians when together tend to neutralize the effects. But,” he  paused and Serena found herself hanging on the tones of his mysterious,  smoky voice, “the more contact I have with a person, the more tragedy  will befall them. I cannot escape it.”

“And that’s why you don’t make friends. You’re protecting people.”

His lips twitched. “No. That is why people don’t make friends with  me.” Turning back to the small window, he nodded. “We’re here.”

A moment later, the horses came to a stop and Seiya alighted from the  carriage. Serena followed him and found herself on the outside walkway  to a large white house with enormous ivy-covered pillars.

“Where are we?”

“The home of a very successful carpet merchant.”

Serena dawdled behind Seiya as he walked across the lawn toward the  front door, then stopped with his hands in his pockets, watching her  from the corner of his eye. Serena gazed up at the double doors,  painted a deep blue, before returning Seiya’s stare.

“What now?” she asked.

He raised his eyebrows and turned silently back to the entrance.  Serena, realizing that he had said more during their short ride in the  carriage than she’d heard him speak in the entire time she’d known  him, figured his vocabulary was probably exhausted. His secretive,  aloof nature had returned.

Frowning, she placed her fists on her hips and tapped her foot against  the brick terrace. “What, am I just supposed to knock? I don’t have  the first idea of why we’re here, Seiya. What would I say? ‘Hi, we  were just out for a stroll and thought we’d stop by to see if you’re  in the middle of a confused fairy tale’? Why don’t you tell me why  you brought me here and then—”

A terrified scream interrupted Serena’s rant and she turned back to  the door with her heart jumping up into her throat. Seiya only tilted  his head, unsurprised, and tossed his black ponytail over one shoulder.

Serena looked back at Seiya for support that she didn’t find there,  then shook her head agitatedly. “Here I go trespassing again,” she  mumbled and, with a deep breath, swung open the door.

A tall, elaborate staircase stretched up in front of them and Serena  wasted no time in rushing up it—the scream seemed to have come from  the second story. Seiya followed behind, casually but quickly with his  long stride. The upstairs was filled with artwork, fine carpets, and  closed doorways. Serena looked down each of the two opposing hallways,  searching for a sign of life, but seeing nothing. Just as she chose a  direction and began heading down that hallway, the distinct sound of  heavy breathing from behind made her pause. She turned and listened for  a moment, risking a glance at Seiya who looked bored and disinterested,  before rushing toward the sound.

She rounded a corner in time to see a girl back fearfully out of a room  and collide with the wall behind her, sending a small painting tumbling  from its hook. The girl hardly seemed to notice. She had short, wavy  red hair and was ghastly pale. Her entire body was shaking and her  green eyes were wide and unblinking as they stared into the room she  was cowering away from.

Serena cleared her throat. “Miss?”

The girl shrieked and jumped away, her eyes darting to Serena and Seiya  as a hand clamped over her mouth.

“We aren’t going to hurt you,” Serena cooed, holding her hands up in  a gesture of peace. “What’s happened? Are you hurt?”

The girl’s eyes suddenly filled up with tears and she collapsed to the  ground, sobbing. Nervously, Serena approached her and began to reach  out to lay a comforting hand on her shoulder, but she froze when her  eyes chanced to look into the open doorway on the other side of the  hall. Screaming, she too took a startled step back, then held a hand to  her mouth as she felt herself gagging.

The room, reeking of blood and death, was strewn with the bodies of  young women, some much further along in decay than the others. Their  stale blood had drowned the carpet and been splattered carelessly over  the walls and curtains.

Turning away with a shudder, Serena desperately tried to rid her mind  of the horrifying image, but it had already imprinted itself into her  brain.

“His wives,” the girl mumbled in a wavering, choked voice. “They are  his past wives.”

“Whose?” Serena managed, staring into the girl’s glossy eyes.

“My husband’s,” she whispered.

At the sound of footsteps, Serena spun around, only to see Seiya  approaching the room and peering inside. While his expression remained  unfazed, his eyelashes did lower briefly, as if in respect for the  dead. Then, his gray eyes darkening, he reached forward and pulled the  door shut. It left a silence in the hallway, and some of the ominous  fear that had been hanging around the girls’ hearts vanished, as if  the horrible room itself had ceased to exist behind that closed door.

But then the moment passed and the girl gasped and flung herself at the  door handle. “No, the key! I dropped the key! If I don’t have it he’ ll know that I . . . . Oh, he’ll kill me, too!” She wailed and,  seeing that Seiya wasn’t about to reopen the door, collapsed against  his chest, shuddering and sobbing. He slowly put an arm over her  shoulder and looked up to Serena, who was desperately trying to keep  her own emotions under control. She couldn’t help wondering if it was  safe for the girl to be so close to Seiya—Tragedy follows wherever I  go—and she quickly looked away, guilty for the thought.

“Okay, calm down,” she whispered, rubbing her palms harshly over her  eyes. After a few deep breaths, she returned Seiya’s stare.  “Bluebeard.”

The girl ceased shaking, but remained pressed up against Seiya, her  fists grabbing up great folds of his tunic.

“Your husband is Bluebeard.”

Slowly, she nodded.

“You brought me into the story of Bluebeard,” she continued  disbelievingly to herself, remembering how the tale had plagued her  with nightmares as a child.

It was then that they heard the front door being swung open and heavy  footsteps on the foyer downstairs. “Molly?” came a gruff voice and  the girl weakened and swayed, but thankfully did not faint even as she  pried herself away from Seiya.

“It’s him,” she breathed. “Oh, dear Perrault, he isn’t supposed to  be home until tomorrow.”

Serena’s eyes widened at the reference to another fairy tale writer  from her world, Charles Perrault, and thought for sure she’d heard  wrong. But before she could question her, Bluebeard’s rumbling voice  carried up the stairwell again.

“Molly?” he repeated and they heard his boots clomping along one of  the downstairs hallways in search of his wife.

As quickly as Molly had launched herself into Seiya, she pulled away  and held him at arm’s length. “You can protect me, can’t you? Won’t  you? You…” Her gaze traveled down and her hopeful expression fell. “ You don’t have a sword.” But the worry and hopelessness changed just  as drastically as before and she swung around to face Serena. “But my  brothers! They’re supposed to be coming to visit me this afternoon.  Please, Lady, go to the third floor and look out the East window and if  you see two men on horseback, motion for them to come as quickly as  they can!” She inhaled a shaky breath. “I’ll go try to distract my  husband for as long as I can. Oh, please let them hurry…”

Deathly pale and trembling, Molly began walking feebly down the hallway  toward the main staircase, but Serena stopped her by reaching forward  and grabbing onto her wrist.

“Now, wait just a minute!” she said, anger and pride welling up and  diminishing the fear and confusion of moments ago. “Now, this is  exactly what always ticked me off about this story. Why on earth would  you send me, an ally, to go summon your brothers while you beg  Bluebeard for mercy and say your prayers, blah blah blah? Why does it  have to be the brothers who do all the rescuing? You’re a young, able -bodied woman, and I am too! And we do have Seiya here, even if he  doesn’t have a sword. Together, with our intelligence and cunning and  combined strength, we can get you out of this mess. It’s the stupidest  thing I’ve ever heard to expect me to go up and wait for your  brothers, just because they’re men. Where is your sense of pride? You  know, ‘I am woman, hear me roar,’ and all that good stuff?”

Molly watched her with astonishment, her green eyes filled with  uncertainty, as if she was trying to decide if Serena had some sort of  mental illness.

“But… we’re ladies! You can’t expect us to… to fight!”

“And why not? I’m not asking you to chop his head off or anything,  but I’m not going to let you waltz down there to your death sentence  like some wilted flower!”

Molly looked about to protest, but she paused and glanced over her  shoulder at Seiya, who was now leaning against the wall with his hands  in his pockets, watching them with an awkward amusement in his charcoal  stare. She turned back to Serena. “But what can we do?” she  whispered, her eyes filling once more with helpless tears, and though  they were close to the same height, Serena saw her suddenly as being  very small and frail. She tried to smile comfortingly.

“We’ll figure something out. But we have to remain calm and strong.”

Molly nodded enthusiastically, her red curls bouncing, but then a  thunderous footstep on the stairs startled her and she had to bite her  tongue to keep from yelling.

“Molly! Where are you?” came Bluebeard’s thundering call.

“Quick, in here,” Serena said, grabbing Molly’s hand and pulling her  into a room just down the hallway. Seiya followed them inside and  closed the door soundlessly behind them. Soon, they heard Bluebeard  reach their floor, but Serena breathed a sigh of relief to hear him  moving toward the opposite wing of the house. “Okay,” she whispered  when she could no longer hear him, “here’s my plan.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Less than a minute later, Bluebeard came storming down the hall, his  face red with anger beneath the blue beard. A day early or not, it was  his wife’s duty to have a warm meal waiting on the table and to greet  him with a smile and clean dressing robe. For him to have to go  searching the entire house for her was absurd, and he was fully  prepared to teach her the importance of male superiority in his house.

But his mental raving was cut short when he saw light streaming from  two doors in the hallway, each barely cracked open. The first was the  closet that he had forbidden Molly from ever opening. His eyes  darkened, his thick eyebrows drawing down and creasing his forehead.

So she’d disobeyed his orders. He couldn’t say he was surprised; the  girl was insolent and disobedient, after all. So it turned out he had  another lesson to teach her as well. Frowning, he wrapped his fingers  around the hilt of the saber that hung from his belt and neared the  second door. He placed his free hand on the knob and shoved it open.

The first thing he noticed was the room seemed abnormally bright. But  this was the only thing he had time to observe as a thick, heavy cloth  was suddenly thrown over his head. He yelled, moving to draw his sword  too late as the fabric was wound around his arms and chest. Screaming  and thrashing, he desperately tried to loosen the stuffy binds, now  realizing that they were the room’s draperies removed from the  windows, but they were already tied securely around his legs.

“Molly! Take this off of me or I swear to Grimm I’ll—”

“Kill me like the rest of your wives? I won’t allow it.”

“Why you insubordinate wretch! You belong to me! If you hadn’t  disobeyed my direct orders I wouldn’t have to—”

His thrashing and yelling was cut short as Molly picked up the first  thing she saw—in this case, a heavy flower vase—and hurled it at his  fabric-covered head.

Serena, who had been busy tying more ropes and string, whatever Seiya  could find in the room, around their enemy, stopped her attempts as  Bluebeard’s body collapsed to the ground with a thud that shook the  room. Blinking, she turned a proud stare up to Molly, broken vase still  in hand.

“Now that is exactly what I’m talking about!” she cheered.

It was then that they heard voices from the first floor and Molly  gasped, her eyes brightening beneath the flushed cheeks and ragged  hair. “Taiki! Yaten! Up here!” she called, dropping the shattered  vase and explaining to Seiya and Serena that her brothers had arrived.

It took her brothers only a minute to rush up the stairs and find the  room, though they stopped and gaped in astonishment, peering curiously  at the fallen, curtain-entangled body and the two strangers who still  held lengths of rope in their hands.

“Molly?” the man with a long gray ponytail asked.

For her part, Molly immediately found herself crying again and launched  herself into the arms of her brother.

Serena sighed and dropped the rope before climbing to her feet with a  weary grin. “Well,” she said, patting the brown-haired brother on the  shoulder as she headed out of the room, “turns out we didn’t need  your help after all, gentlemen. But I’ll gladly let you clean up the  mess.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The first thing Serena did when she entered the castle’s landing was  shrug off her shoes. Sitting cross-legged against the tapestry-covered  wall, she joyously massaged her swollen feet, vowing to demand better  shoes the first chance she got. Fashion and style were one thing, after  all, but hardly meant for traipsing around saving dramas and tragedies.

Sighing, she leaned back, placing her soles down on the marble floor.  Its coolness eased some of the hot, sweaty feeling and she could  momentarily ignore the summer’s last burst of heat. A gentle breeze  from the large, open doorway offered even more comfort as it sifted  through her loose bangs.

The thought to make her way to the dining hall and request a very  large, very cold glass of lemonade struck Serena as a splendid idea,  but just as she was opening her eyes and beginning to stand, she heard  a voice calling her.

Looking up, Serena saw Lita walking toward her, a smile on her face and  some yards of gorgeous blue velvet draped over one arm. The dirt and  ash smudges had been washed from her face and her hair neatly combed  into a low tail. Even the clothes she wore—a simple white maid’s  outfit—though nothing like her magical ball gown, were far more  suiting than the rags Serena had last seen on her.

“Lita!” she exclaimed, clamoring to her feet despite her legs’  protests. She grabbed her shoes off the floor and pulled the taller  girl into a hug. “How are you?”

“Oh, fine,” Lita laughed, ruffling Serena’s hair as she pulled away.  “I was just taking this material down to the seamstress. Would you  like to walk with me?”

“I would love to,” Serena chirped, forgetting the temptation of a  cold beverage and following Lita down the hall. “I’m so glad to see  you. How are you getting along here?”

“It’s wonderful! I may not be royalty, but compared to my stepmother ’s home, I feel treated as such. Everyone is so pleasant and I enjoy  the work. I never minded the chores of cooking and cleaning, I love the  feeling of being productive, really, but I always felt most comfortable  with a spoon in my hand and flour on my face.” She grinned, stroking  the soft fabric on her arm. “And you? What have you been doing? I’m  wonderfully glad that you weren’t tossed out of the castle on my  behalf.”

“Oh, well, I’ve . . . been busy,” Serena said with a wave of her  hand, denouncing the importance of her own daily activities. Explaining  child-eating wolves and homicidal merchants didn’t seem worth the  effort.

“Yes, there always seems to be something happening around here,” Lita  laughed. “After all, they just had an engagement ball, and now we’re  all running around to prepare for Prince Endymion’s wedding ceremony.  We’re all kept very busy, measuring and fitting and sewing gowns and  tunics. I’ve been helping out the seamstress much more than the chef  lately, but it’s been kind of fun.”

Forcing a smile, Serena could only imagine how glorious and fanciful  Endymion’s ceremony would be. She knew that no “fairy tale wedding”  in the real world could ever compare to the extravagance afforded them  here. She tried desperately to be happy for him and his betrothed, but  couldn’t help remembering the tender touch and even more tender smile  he had given her the night before. She pushed the feelings of jealousy  aside. Lita was speaking again.

“You’ll be here, won’t you, Serena? For the wedding?”

“Oh, sure, I guess I will. And you? Will you be attending?”

Lita laughed loudly, as if the idea was preposterous. “Servants don’t  attend such things unless they’re carrying platters of food. And I am  not in any hurry to be the uninvited guest again.”

Smiling back, Serena asked, shyly, “But, of course, you did enjoy the  last ball.”

She saw Lita’s smile falter and a deep longing enter her eyes. “It  was the most extraordinary and beautiful thing that has ever happened  to me.” Her cheerfulness was gone, replaced by reminiscing and  something deeper. Something powerful that Serena couldn’t place but  felt she understood.

“I’m sorry to have mentioned it.”

“Don’t be,” Lita comforted, her smile returning. “It may not have  ended how I wish it had, but it did take me away from a life I hated  and put me here—thanks to you. Besides, it is a memory that brings  boundless joy, along with the tears.”

Serena harrumphed. “I don’t think I would be wasting many tears on  that sorry excuse for a prince.”

Lita ignored the contempt in Serena’s voice with a chuckle. “He did  what he felt best for himself, his family, and his kingdom. Can you say  you would have acted differently?”

“I most certainly can! He’s in love with you, Lita. He should be  following his heart, not some stupid political preconceptions!”

The servant’s soft smile persisted. “Only in fables can such things  be ignored.” Serena fought to bite back her response to that.  “Besides,” Lita continued, her voice shaking the tiniest bit,  “perhaps he never was in love with me, but with the magic that had  disguised me as a suitable bride, as he said. I had barely met him,  after all.”

Rolling her eyes, Serena shifted her shoes to the other hand. She was  getting sick of hearing excuses that undermined very obvious feelings.  “Are you in love with him?”

It was a long time before Lita answered, during which Serena hoped she  hadn’t crossed the limit of friendly curiosity. Finally, the girl  replied, “I saw him this morning. He was sitting out in the garden,  strumming on a lute and humming to himself. I stood and watched him. He  didn’t notice me. I don’t know what he was playing, but he was  frowning. He looked as though he was going to cry, and I longed to  change that. It hurt to walk away and leave him be. I felt everything  in me begging to turn around and return to him, but I knew it would be  awkward and inappropriate. I dared not upset him again.” She paused  and sighed gently. “Yes, Lady Serena, I’m afraid I am in love with  him. And I’m afraid that I will be for the rest of my life.”

She came to an abrupt stop in front of an open wooden door. The  whirring of weaving looms and spindles could be heard inside. “Here we  are. Thank you for walking with me. I trust you can find your way back  to the main hall?”

Though Serena hadn’t been paying much attention to where they were  going, she said that she could. As Lita turned to leave, though, she  reached out and grabbed her by the elbow.

“Lita, I—” she hesitated, then smiled brightly. “I believe you  deserve even more than the most fantastic prince, but if your heart  belongs to Nephlite, don’t give up on him yet.”

Lita stared back, her eyes doubtful, but she faked a smile.

“Goodnight, Serena. I hope to see you again some time. You’ve been a  true friend.”

“You know where to find me if ever you need me. For anything.” Serena  bid her goodnight and turned to head back the way they had come.

Later that night, as she lie in her overstuffed bed, Serena racked her  brain for something she could say to Nephlite to convince him to give  Lita another chance. A first chance. But she could think of nothing.

Chapter 11: The Pea Test
She went into the bedroom and laid a pea on the bedstead.
Then she took twenty mattresses and piled them on top of the pea.
This was where the princess was to sleep that night.
from The Pea Test

Serena was awakened by incessant pounding on her bedroom door. With a  groan, she hugged her pillow tight around her ears and pretended not to  hear it, but the knocking didn’t stop.

“Go away!” she grumbled.

“Lady Serena, are you awake?” she heard Andrew’s voice through the  door.

“No!”

The knocking paused briefly, before knocking again, even louder. “Lady  Serena!”

Growling, she flopped onto her back and stared agitatedly at the dark  ceiling. Her curtains were open, but the moon must have been on the  other side of the castle, for the room was dark. She could only guess  what god-awful time of the night it was.

Finally, Serena threw her feet over the side of the bed and stomped to  the door, swinging it open with an angry “What now?”

Andrew took a surprised step away, but quickly recovered. “You’re  needed beyond the castle walls.”

She glared at him, her gaze sweeping over his wrinkle-free white tunic,  neatly combed blonde hair, and perky green eyes.

“You’ve got to be kidding,” she mumbled.

Andrew shook his head. “Afraid not, Mi’lady. It’s quite important.”

“What time is it?”

“The sun will be up in an hour.”

She growled and slammed her forehead against the doorframe. “Andrew, I  spent yesterday fighting a brutal serial murderer and calming down his  hysterical wife. The day before that was spent traipsing through the  woods in a nightgown and taking on a hungry wolf. I’ve had very little  to eat and even less time to sleep. Now, can’t this wait until  morning?”

“I’m afraid not, Lady Serena,” Andrew answered apologetically.  “Now, please, get dressed and meet me by the eastern gate in ten  minutes.” Ignoring Serena’s whimpering, Andrew turned and dashed down  the hall.

Ten minutes later, Serena emerged groggily on the steps to the castle’ s eastern entrance, attempting to tie her hair up in its signature  buns, yawn, stretch, and walk at the same time. It only took her a  moment to spot Andrew standing on the cobblestone road just outside,  holding a steaming mug in one hand and a basket in the other.

“Please tell me that’s breakfast.”

“Of course. Three different kinds of muffins, plus piping hot coffee.  I wasn’t sure how you liked it, so I brought both sugar and cream.”

Though she tried to fight it, Serena’s lips slowly curled up in a  grateful smile. “All right, you’ve slightly redeemed yourself,” she  said, taking the mug and spooning a few heaps of sugar into it while  Andrew reached down and picked up a glowing lantern that was casting a  warm glow over the dark street. “So what’s the emergency?” she  asked, blowing steam off the top of the fresh brew.

“Right this way.” Andrew started walking along the road while Serena  devoured an orange, cranberry, and walnut muffin. They’d only walked a  few blocks before Andrew stopped in front of a large house with a  beautiful garden filled with bluebells and hyacinths and a burbling  water fountain. Serena remembered seeing the house while she and  Nephlite had searched for Cinderella, but they hadn’t gone inside, so  she had assumed that the residents didn’t include any available  daughters.

“This is the Penelope Mansion,” Andrew informed her with a sweep of  his arm. “They are one of the richest and most esteemed noble families  in Aysel. The only heir to the family fortune, Elios Penelope, will be  celebrating his seventeenth birthday next week and his parents intend  for that day to also be his wedding day. They have spent the last two  months attempting to find a suitable bride for him, but without luck.  It seems that they’ve developed a test that all possible suitors have  thus far been unable to pass.”

“What sort of a test?”

“Come see for yourself.” Without hesitation, Andrew approached the  far side of the house where a tall oak tree stood, its golden leaves  swaying in the early morning’s gentle breezes. Grabbing onto the  lowest of the branches, Andrew swung himself up into the boughs with  amazing agility that was certainly related, in part, to his elfin  genes.

“Andrew! What are you doing?” Serena hissed from below, searching the  yard and house for any signs of life.

Looking down, Andrew held a finger to his lips to quiet Serena, before  beckoning her to follow.

Serena shook her head and took a long sip of her coffee. “You’re  absolutely crazy if you think—”

“Lady Serena,” Andrew whispered urgently, “this is tremendously  important. Now, the branches are quite sturdy and close enough together  that you should have no problem climbing them. Quickly, now.”

Glowering, Serena unhappily set the mug down in the grass. “Great. All  I ask for is one peaceful night’s sleep…” she mumbled as she wrapped  her hands around the first branch, testing its strength, before hauling  herself upward.

A moment later, she and Andrew were sitting level with the house’s  second story and Serena could see the first rays of pink appearing in  the sky above the neighboring rooftops.

“What are we doing up here?”

Andrew waved a hand and shushed her again, before saying in muted  tones, “This is her window, here.”

“Whose window?”

Without answering, Andrew began to crawl along the branch toward a bay  window that jutted out from the brick wall.

“Wait! What are you doing? Isn’t this called breaking and entering?  If I get arrested because of you—”

Andrew winked at her. “The window is open, Mi’lady. We don’t have to  break anything, just enter. And besides, even if you do get arrested,  you are a guest of the royal family. I highly doubt much harm will come  to you.”

“How reassuring.”

Her sarcasm went unheard, or simply ignored, as Andrew slipped through  the open window, his white tunic disappearing behind the eyelet  curtains. After taking a moment to rub her fingers over her temples and  question her own sanity, Serena followed him inside.

The room was large and plain with higher ceilings than Serena would  have expected and a bed in the very center, though bed was a very  lackluster term for the sight that greeted her. The frame was stacked  with mattress upon mattress upon mattress, of all different colors and  thicknesses, with the occasional blanket or duvet or sheet set poking  out from in between. Serena raised an eyebrow as her eyes traveled up  the pile, figuring there must have been a dozen mattresses or more.

Immediately, she understood the mysterious test that the Penelopes had  created for their son’s suitors.

“The pea test?” she growled. “You woke me up at, no, before the  break of dawn so that we could solve the pea test?”

Truth be told, she’d never much liked that fairy tale to begin with.  Now she was sure she liked it less.

Andrew gestured for her silence. “Listen.”

So listen she did and not a moment later the obvious sound of crying  could be heard from the top of the mattress pile. The sobs were so  pained and heart wrenching that Serena’s anger quickly fizzled away  and she glared, more irritated than mad, at Andrew, wishing she could  have stayed upset longer.

“Fine,” she said with a sigh and walked to the foot of the bed. She  shifted from foot to foot for a while, trying to think of an acceptable  way to approach the situation, before clearing her throat and calling  up, “Hello? Somebody up there?”

The crying stopped and a moment later a girl’s face appeared at the  top of the bed, blinking down on them. She had shoulder-length hair  that, while the room was dark, Serena could have sworn was bubble-gum  pink, and red eyes—not red from crying, just red. Her cheeks were  flushed and her eyes glossy from tears, but despite all this, her  heart-shaped face and long lashes and pale complexion did make the girl  quite adorable. Pretty even. She couldn’t have been older than  thirteen. “Who’s there?”

Serena swayed nervously, waving up at the girl. “Hi. Um, my name’s  Serena, and this is Andrew. Don’t panic, we’re guests of the royal  family. What’s your name?”

The girl looked between the two, her eyes fluttering curiously. “Rini. ”

“Why are you crying, Rini?”

Pouting, Rini hung her head so that her hair cascaded over the side of  the top mattress. “Because I don’t know what to do.”

“What do you mean?”

“I’ve been put up on top of these mattresses and told that I’m being  tested, and I must pass the test in order to marry Elios next week. But  I don’t know what the test is and I haven’t slept a wink all night. I  don’t understand at all and if I don’t pass, he’ll marry somebody  else. But… but I love him!” She sobbed and the tears started up  again. As soon as they had started though, they stopped and Rini looked  at Serena and Andrew with a gasp. “Are you part of the test?”

“No,” Serena assured her. “But I think I can help you.”

“Really?”

Serena nodded. “You see, it’s a stupid test, really, and lord only  knows what they’re trying to prove with it. But… Elios’s parents  have put a pea under your bed.”

“A pea?”

“Yes, a pea, under the bottom mattress.”

“As in... ‘peas and carrots’?”

“That’s the one. Right under here.” She gestured at the bottom  mattress.

Rini blinked at her curiously, her brow slowly drawing down in evident  confusion and a little touch of disbelief. “Why would they do that?”

“Well… to see if it bothers you, actually.”

“A pea.”

“Yes.”

“We are talking about the vegetable, aren’t we?”

“Yes, the…. you know, the little… green…” Serena held up her  fingers to show the size of an average pea, and felt quite silly as she  did so. “Yes, the vegetable.”

“Just one?”

“Just one.”

“I see,” Rini murmured, though it was obvious that she really didn’ t. “And… why would that bother me?”

Serena shrugged. “I told you it was a stupid test. I mean, if it were  me, I would marry my son to the girl who had enough sense to ask for a  smaller bed, but it’s not my test.”

“That would make more sense, wouldn’t it?” Andrew mused. Serena shot  a cool look at him, before smiling up at the confused girl.

“So here’s what to do: tomorrow morning Elios’s parents are going to  ask how you slept. You need to tell them that you had the worst night’ s sleep you’ve had in your entire life, and all night long it felt  like you were sleeping on a bowling ball.”

Rini hesitated, before meekly asking, “What’s a bowling ball?”

“Oh, it’s a big, heavy ball with holes in it that you throw down this  skinny lane and try to knock down these…” Serena ceased her  description, realizing what a waste of breath it was, and shook her  head. “Er, never mind. How about a watermelon? Tell them it felt like  you were sleeping on a watermelon.”

“Because of the pea.”

“Yes.”

“But who could ever feel a pea through twelve mattresses? Who could  ever feel a pea through one mattress?”

Serena shook her head. “You’re asking the wrong girl. I’m just the  Chosen One. So are we clear on what you’re going to say tomorrow?  Because we could both be sleeping right now.”

Rini shook her head. “How do I know that you aren’t tricking me and  that by telling them about the pea I’m actually failing the test? How  do I know that they’re not testing my honesty or faithfulness and by  lying to them or listening to complete strangers, I’ll fail?”

Serena bit the inside of her cheek and looked back at Andrew. “She has  a good point.”

“Yes, she’s one of the smarter suitors the Penelopes have found. I  think she and Elios will be very happy together, don’t you?”

“You’re more hopeless than me,” Serena said, sighing, and turning  back to the girl while rubbing at a kink in her neck, having formed  from staring up at the girl. “Okay, look. You’re in love with this  Elios guy?”

“Oh, yes!”

“Really, truly in love?”

“Absolutely.”

“You’re not just after his money or good name or anything like that? ”

The girl gasped, appalled at the idea. “Of course not!”

“And does he feel the same way?”

Rini flushed and shyly nodded her head. “He told me he’s been in  agony the last two months, thinking that his parents would choose one  of the other girls before it was my turn. He wants to marry me. I know  he does.”

“Well, then, if you take my advice, about the watermelon, and it doesn ’t work, you two can just elope.”

Andrew sounded like he was gagging on something. “Serena, that isn’t  how—” His words turned into a yelp as Serena dug her heel into his  foot.

“Elope?” Rini asked.

“Sure. You don’t really want parents-in-law who make you sleep on top  of twelve mattresses, anyway, do you? You and Elios will be perfectly  happy together. Go find a cottage in the woods or something. Have lots  of little Penelope babies. Be happy.”

Rini was silent a long time as she pondered the suggestion, before a  small smile appeared on her lips. “Why didn’t I think of that?”

“Excellent question. But this is only if the watermelon idea doesn’t  work, got it? Otherwise, I think Andrew here might have a hernia.”

“A what?”

“Nothing. Just... try my suggestion first, okay?

Rini nodded determinedly.

“Good. So, we’ll be leaving now. Have an awful night’s sleep.”

“I will. Thank you!” She cheerily bid the two good bye before  disappearing into the heap of bedding.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena woke up to the chiming of noon bells with a satisfied yawn. When  she and Andrew had returned to the castle, Serena immediately took her  leave of the guardian and proceeded back to her bedroom where she  wasted no time falling into a deep slumber. Now, refreshed and  rejuvenated, she hopped out of bed, brushed her hair and teeth, put on  the most casual dress she could find, and crossed her fingers that the  rest of the day would go by without incident. If she could spend just a  few hours without having to solve some absurd problem, she believed she  would be returned to her normal, chipper self.

In order to help her reach this goal, she began to meander aimlessly  through the castle, continuously ducking into odd rooms, partly in  exploration and partly in an attempt to keep from running into one of  the guardians on accident.

Just as she had on her first afternoon of searching through the castle,  Serena stumbled upon dozens of strange and interesting rooms: a music  room filled with violins, cymbals, flutes, and instruments she could  not name; a painter’s studio where the floor was covered with a large  drop cloth splattered in different colors, and many easels stood  haphazardly throughout the room containing everything from untouched  canvases to masterpieces waiting to be framed; then another library, a  sitting room, a tea parlor.

Humming to herself, enjoying some nice, quiet alone time, Serena  continued down the hallways and eventually discovered a weapons room at  the base of the northeast tower. But the weapons did not appear  dangerous and ominous. Rather, they were exhibited like pieces of fine  art. Jeweled dagger hilts glittered from the walls. Sword sheaths shone  in the candlelight in every material from branded leather to ornamented  gold. An enormous bow was tacked to the far wall next to an onyx-headed  arrow with ebony raven feathers sewn to its shaft. It hung harmless,  sleek, and beautiful. The north wall was draped with a heavy blue  velvet curtain, a backdrop for full suits of armor that stood displayed  against it, their clean, silver outlines glowing in the sunlight from  the window. Each suit had its own weapon: an axe, a broadsword, a  spear. Serena’s eyes skimmed over all the room’s honored décor with  intrigue, but she was getting ready to move on to another room when she  caught sight of a tiny, unusual marking on one of the stone walls.

Furrowing her brow, Serena approached the mark, which was a few inches  below a burning sconce, and ran her fingers over it. Though it was  faded and shallow, it looked as if someone had carved a date into the  wall, though she couldn’t quite make it out—except for one line that  looked peculiarly like an arrow, pointing toward the blue curtain.  Serena pursed her lips together and followed the arrow’s direction,  tracing her fingers along the mortar of the stone wall until they came  to the drapery, and slowly inching it away from the wall—but only  stone met her.

Disappointed, she sighed and dropped the curtain. “So much for Nancy  Drew,” she thought, stepping away, then squealed as she felt something  sharp jab her in the side. “Ouch!” Jumping back, she turned to see  that it was nothing more than one of the suits of armor that she had  bumped into, true to her clumsy nature. Rolling her eyes, she slapped  the guilty dagger away and turned to leave the room, but was stopped by  a curious creaking noise.

She turned back to face the suit of armor. It swayed, it rocked, and  finally it toppled to the floor with a deafening crash.

Screeching, Serena jumped away to avoid the falling chunks of metal.  Once the echo of the fall had died away, she bit her nail and rushed to  the doorway, peering out to see if anyone had heard the commotion,  before closing the door and turning to analyze her mess.

“Oh dear...” she mumbled, walking toward the suit—one arm splayed  out at a strange angle, the other missing a gauntlet, and... oh, where  did that dagger end up at? After whining to herself and tottering from  foot to foot, Serena tried desperately to haul the armor up to its  upright, standing position, and finally—after much grunting and  perspiration, had it held up against its support, but with its torso  still dangling over her shoulder. “Okay,” she gasped, “I’m just  going to lean you against the wall and no one will ever know.” With  one last heave, she pushed the armor toward the curtain—where it  paused briefly on its previous stand, before toppling back through the  wall!

Wailing, Serena jumped back again, tripping over the missing gauntlet  and tumbling to her rear. Once again, she listened for any sounds of  someone coming down the hall to check on the horrendously loud fiasco,  and, when none came, she briefly considered slipping through the door  and running back to her quarters before the mess could be discovered.

But her curiosity quickly overcame that idea and she crawled on her  hands and knees to the fallen armor and the blue curtain partly  covering it and drew the drapery aside.

The suit was in worse shape than ever, dented and dusty where it had  landed, with one shin piece missing and the helmet looking as if it  could be severed by a slight breeze. But all this was quickly forgotten  as Serena took in the staircase it had landed on, shadowed and twisting  upward and out of sight. She glanced at the marking on the wall. The  small etched arrow was pointing straight at this hidden doorway. With a  gulp, she drew herself to her feet and stepped over the armor.

The stairway was dark except for the occasional window slit into the  stone that let in the early afternoon light. The stairs were dusty, but  not disgustingly so, and while it was obvious that the stairway hadn’t  seen life in some time, it was just as obvious that it wasn’t  altogether forgotten. She climbed for what must have been three or four  stories, pausing occasionally to glance through one of the windows— most of which looked over the town and farmlands below.

Finally, Serena reached a wooden door at the end of the stairway and,  holding her breath, pushed it open. It budged without resistance and  she found herself in a little round room with a few curtained windows  but nothing on the walls. It was empty with the exception of some straw  scattered over the floor and a handful of broken chains that glittered  like gold against the stone and a simple wooden spinning wheel in the  center of the room.

Serena’s eyelashes fluttered curiously as she approached the spinning  wheel, wondering why anyone would keep such a room hidden if all it had  to hide was a rotting domestic tool. She smoothed her hands briefly  over the seat, checking for splinters but finding it smooth, and sat  down. She tapped her foot against the pedal and the wheel started  spinning without resistance. Stopping, she pulled out a few pieces of  straw that had gotten stuck in the spokes, and traced her fingers up to  the needle that sat innocently with one of the thin golden strands  dangling from its eye. That’s when Serena realized the importance of  this room and this spinning wheel.

It was where Rumpelstiltskin had spun the straw into gold, as a favor  for Mina. Serena looked around the room, certain that her theory was  correct, and tried to imagine herself as the poor farmer girl who had  claimed to be capable of something she was not, who had accepted the  help from a devious dwarf man with cruel intentions, who had dreamed of  marrying a prince while watching straw being threaded into one end and  come out gold on the other.

Serena sat mindlessly tapping on the pedal, watching the wheel spin and  listening to its quiet whirring for a long time, until muffled voices  reached her from the courtyard below. Pausing, she stood and crept to  one of the windows, seeing maids and squires rushing around in the  garden, in and out of the gates, talking fast and barking orders at  each other that Serena couldn’t understand. She was surprised to see  the sun dipping beneath the castle and wondered just how long she had  been sitting in the little room, mesmerized and silent.

Shaking her head, she picked up her skirts and rushed through the open  doorway and down the stairs, not looking back.

Just as she reached the weapons room and hopped over the fallen suit of  armor, she heard a commotion out in the hallway and paused. A couple  maids ran past the shut doorway, talking excitedly. From their  breathless chattering, Serena understood, “They’re bringing him into  the west ballroom. They’ve called for clean bandages.”

“But who are they?” asked another.

“Little men! Smaller even than elves! They’re like that evil man from  before, but kinder looking. I’ve never seen anything like them.”

Their voices drifted away as they rounded a corner. Serena hesitated  momentarily, having the distinct feeling that she was needed in the  west ballroom and that someone, probably Hota, Andrew, or Seiya, would  soon be coming for her.

With a sigh and one last look at the dangerous treasures, Serena left  the room and made her way in the direction the maids had been running.

The ballroom was a flurry of activity when she entered in through its  massive curtained doorways. Servants scurried in and out carrying  herbs, wine, bandages, and wash towels, damp and dry. They ignored her,  each set to a specific task, many of them gossiping in whispers to  themselves. As she walked into the room, she immediately saw the cause  for their commotion.

On the south wall, where the thrones sat on their own platform flanked  by empty orchestra seating, two small men, each less than four feet in  height and perfectly round about their middle, stood talking gruffly to  the royal family. King Artemis and the Princes Malachite and Nephlite  each appeared rapt in the men’s story, the queen wept at their side  hovering over the smaller of the two thrones. Beside it, Endymion  stood, his arms crossed over his chest, frowning deeply, and Jadeite  knelt, looking intently at . . .

Serena’s heart jumped.

“Zoicite!” she squealed and dashed forward upon recognizing the  prince’s sandy brown hair. He turned toward her and she felt her feet  involuntarily come to a halt beneath her, one hand clapping over her  mouth. Wrapped tightly over his eyes was a thick, gauzy bandage covered  in smatterings of dried blood. Her eyes widened, her knees weakening  beneath her.

Endymion looked up at the sound of her voice, his frown deepening as  she hesitantly came closer. Stepping away from the throne and his  family, he walked briskly toward her, roughly grabbing her upper arm  and pulling her away from the bustle of people.

“What are you doing here? We’re busy!” he growled into her ear, his  hand tightening harshly.

“What happened to him?” she responded, absently clawing at his  fingers while still trying to look at the bandaged prince over her  shoulder.

“You tell me,” he hissed.

Finally, she looked up into Endymion’s eyes, astonishment evident in  her features. “What do you mean?”

“You knew something was going to happen. You knew he was running into  danger, and yet you did nothing to stop it!”

“I don’t . . .”

“You told me so yourself, Serena! You told me you needed to warn him.  What exactly did you send him into out there?”

“But I didn’t . . . . I only suggested . . .” she paused, unsure  what she had said. Was this really her fault? Endymion’s glare burning  into her made it easy to believe that it was. She slowly became aware  of a dull aching in her arm and her fingers going numb. “You’re  hurting me.”

His grip didn’t loosen. “You promised me he would be fine!”

Serena glanced back at Zoicite, looking helpless and lost amidst the  chaotic sounds of the ballroom, then at Endymion’s cold stare. An  intense anger boiled inside of her. “I have promised you nothing,”  she spat, returning the glare. “And he will be fine!” Ripping her arm  away from him, she stormed across the marble floor toward the injured  Prince Zoicite.

Chapter 12: Blind
He escaped with his life, but the thorns into which he fell pierced his  eyes.
Then he wandered blind through the forest and did naught but lament and  weep over his loss.
from Rapunzel

“Zoicite, what happened?” Serena asked, rushing to the throne. The  prince turned toward her and she could see red scratches across his  face that disappeared beneath the collar of his tunic. His clothes,  though clean, were covered in holes and tears.

“Who is this?” he asked as she kneeled down beside him. The two  little men who had been speaking with Artemis, Malachite, and Nephlite,  stopped to watch her, as did the three guardians, who Serena had failed  to notice lurking in the throne’s shadow.

“It’s Serena,” she answered.

“Ah, of course, Lady. I did not recognize your voice at first.” He  did not seem to be in pain and smiled in her direction as a maid sat  down on a stool and began wrapping a yard of linen around his arm. On  the ground beside her was a large pile of discarded, blood-stained  bandages.

“Zoicite, what happened to you?”

“I found her,” he said simply, his smile widening. “And you were  right. Everything you said was right.”

“What did she say?” Endymion growled from behind her.

“Many things,” Zoicite answered, oblivious to the animosity in  Endymion’s tone. “She said that the girl in the tower would be  beautiful, as beautiful as her voice. And that she could be the girl of  my dreams, the girl I would love more than any other, and she was  right. Serena also said that she was kept in the tower against her will  by an evil witch.” His grin faded. “She was right about that, too.”

“Start from the beginning, dear,” Queen Luna said, wrapping her hands  around

Zoicite’s freshly-bandaged fingers.

The prince inhaled a long breath. “While on our hunting trip, I left  the group one evening and came upon a strange tower. I could hear  singing coming from the top, yet could find no entrance. Then, an old  woman approached and sang out a rhyme, which was followed by a  waterfall of hair that reached from the single window at the top to the  ground. The woman used it as a ladder to climb up.

“I was so baffled by this that I told Serena and Sir Andrew about it  when we returned. Serena convinced me to go back and rescue the girl  from the tower; in the case that she needed rescuing, of course.”

Serena could feel Endymion glaring at the back of her head and wished  that Zoicite had left her role out of his retelling.

“The next morning, I rode straight to the place where I remembered the  tower being. I thought it would take me all day to find it again, but  as I got closer, I could hear the singing. It was as if the wind was  bringing the sound directly to me. Like she was singing for me alone.

“I followed the sound straight to the tower, but this time I did not  bother to search for a door. Instead, I called out the same song I had  heard the old woman sing. ‘Rapunzel, Rapunzel, let down your hair,  that I may climb the lovely stair.’ The singing stopped abruptly and  there was a moment in which nothing happened. It was like the entire  world had stopped breathing. Then, the same cascade of hair fell down  beside me, the color of the ocean, like a waterfall.

“I took a deep breath, hoping I wouldn’t weigh too much, then began  to climb. Her hair felt like a silk rope—strong and healthy and softer  than the most luscious velvet. As I got closer to the window, I saw  that the hair was wrapped around a rod that was attached to the stones,  which was why it didn’t hurt her to have someone climb it. And then .  . . then I saw her.”

Zoicite sank into the throne, his face tilting up toward the ceiling as  the memory returned to him. His smile had crawled up even brighter than  before. “She was the most gorgeous woman I have ever seen. Not only  was her hair impossibly beautiful, but she was looking at me with these  huge, hopeful blue eyes. I almost dropped the rope . . . er, her hair .  . . because the gaze made me so weak. I could think of nothing to say  for a long time and just hung there, staring at her, and her staring  right back. At first, I thought she might be afraid, but she seemed  more curious than anything. Finally, she asked me in a voice that sang  even when she was only speaking, ‘Are you a prince?’”

Zoicite chuckled at the memory. “I couldn’t help but laugh. Her voice  was so sweet and innocent that it tickled my nerves at hearing it. I  told her that I was, then, and she invited me inside. I told her my  name and she said that she was called Rapunzel by her keeper, but that  her birth name was Amy. After that, both of our times of silence were  broken and we talked and talked. She was full of questions, about most  everything, and I answered them as best I could. I soon learned that  she had been put in the tower when she was very young and had no memory  of the outside world. So I told her about our kingdom, my family,  especially all my brothers. And I told her about feasts and dances, the  marketplace, and the wheat fields—she could see only forest from her  window. Then she told me about the birds that visited her and the  perfect sunsets she could see over the horizons. Hours passed and dusk  came and then we heard the old woman calling for her to let down her  hair.

“Amy turned to me, looking suddenly very afraid, and said—I remember  her words exactly—‘My Prince, have you come to rescue me?’ I told  her that I would rescue her and bring her to my kingdom and marry her  if she would have me, and she said that she would. She went to the  window, wrapped her hair around the pole, and dropped it down to the  witch.

“The woman climbed up muttering and cursing Rapunzel for taking too  long. She didn’t notice me at first when she entered the room, a  basket smelling of fresh bread on one arm. But when she did see me, her  eyes flared with anger and hatred.” Zoicite shuddered visibly. “She  began screaming, first at Amy, then at me. She asked if I’d touched  her; she accused her of being indecent. She called her horrible things,  then threatened that I would never see her again.” Gritting his teeth,  Zoicite touched the material over his eyes. “I had no idea how right  she would be.

“Then the witch reached inside the basket and pulled out a bread  knife. I began to draw my sword, but her aged look was deceiving and  she was quick and surprisingly agile. She stabbed me in the shoulder,  and before I could recover from the shock, she had grabbed my tunic  and, with abnormal strength, pushed me from the window. As I fell, I  saw my Amy weeping and clawing at the witch’s back. It was the last  thing I saw. The last thing I will ever see.

“The tower was surrounded by thorn bushes. I crashed into them and  found them to be part blessing and part curse. They broke my fall, from  which I certainly would have broken my neck. But then it seemed as if  their branches came to life, grabbing and clawing at me. They tore at  my clothes, my skin, my face.” He paused, running an absent hand over  the scratches on his cheeks and lips. “They tore out my eyes.

“Somehow, I managed to crawl away from them. I spent the night  wandering aimlessly, trying desperately to cover my wounds. Without the  heat from the sun, I didn’t know which direction to go. All the forest  sounds were dark and unfamiliar when they weren’t drowned out by the  sound of sweet Amy’s crying still in my head. I’ve never felt more  lost and helpless. Then, when it seemed I had walked for weeks—though  I now know it was scarcely two days—I heard the sound of water: a  joyful, bubbling sound. I followed it to a small brook. It wasn’t  deep, but allowed for me to drink and bathe my wounds. I lay down  beside it, thinking I would die there. Thinking I had just met my love  and now I would never see her again. I would rather have died than live  forever deformed and without her, to live knowing I had failed the one  request she had made of me.

“Then I fell asleep.”

“An’ that’s when we found ‘im,” one of the short men said in a  guttural, rough voice. Serena turned to the man who had spoken. He had  thick red hair pulled back into a braid, and a longer beard hanging in  two braids down to his stomach. Though he was roughly the size and  shape of a barrel, his arms and short legs were composed of defined  muscles. Both he and his companion wore soiled tunics in grays, browns,  and blacks that looked to have been mended and patched time and time  again. “’E was sleepin’ like a baby.”

“’An snorin’ like an old man,” chuckled the other man in a voice  that was just as gruff. He had straggly black hair that was loose over  his shoulders, making a full wall across his face with a beard and  mustache. His gray eyes, mostly hidden beneath thick eyebrows, laughed  in the afternoon light. “We tried to wake ‘im, but ‘e must of been  dreamin’ of some sweet lass. I don’t think nothin’ short of an  earthquake woulda stirred ‘im.”

“So instead, we took ‘im home, where Snowflake could take care of  ‘im,” finished the red-haired man.

“Snowflake?” Serena asked.

Zoicite chuckled. “Her name is really Snow White, but these men and  their five brothers call her everything but. She doesn’t seem to mind.  Actually, she calls herself Raye.”

“Raye? Why Raye?”

Shrugging, Zoicite answered, “I asked her the same thing. She told me  that when she was a child, her father had called her his little ray of  sunshine. That, and she said that her given name brings back sad  memories, so she doesn’t like to use it.”

The two small men exchanged uncomfortable looks—making it obvious that  they knew exactly what kind of memories Raye was referring to—and  Serena couldn’t help but grin knowingly. She’d guessed as much,  realizing that these could only be dwarfs, and the most famous fairy  tale dwarfs at that, and while it was never mentioned in the fairy  story, it made sense that Snow White would choose another name to ward  off suspicious ears. After all, being a runaway princess must have been  an identity hard enough to keep secret. “And what are your names?”  she asked.

“I’m Qualakig,” said the red-haired dwarf. “And this ‘ere is  Gralogwid.”

“It’s a pleasure to have you here. You are most welcome in our home  and have our sincerest gratitude for bringing Zoicite home to us,”  King Artemis said.

“Of course, and this Snow White and all of your brothers, as well,”  concurred his wife.

Qualakig snorted, looking around at the finely decorated and furnished  ballroom in contempt. “Thanks, but we won’t be stayin’ long. Too  wide open around ‘ere. Can’t wait to get back to forests and coal  mines.” Gralogwid grunted in agreement.

“Please, tell us more,” Hota suddenly interjected. “What happened  when you brought Zoicite back to your home?”

The dwarfs looked startled, seeing the small winged girl on Seiya’s  shoulder for the first time, and looking at her with superstitious fear  and curiosity.

“Well, lit’le miss,” Gralogwid stuttered, tightening his leather  belt, “Whitey fixed ‘im right up. Took ‘er but a minute to have ‘is  scratches all cleaned and tended an’ he was wrapped up like a mummy.  ‘E slept through the whole thing, and just kept on sleepin’ through  the day and into the next. We were beginnin’ to think ‘e might be in  some sorta coma, but then ‘e finally woke up. ‘E told us his story,  an’ asked us to bring ‘im home. So we did, an’ here we are.”

“When’s lunch?” Qualakig broke in, and they all heard the loud  rumbling of his stomach. Serena hid her giggling.

“We’ll have a feast prepared right away,” Queen Luna said, waving at  a couple servants standing not far away.

“No need to make a feast for us,” Qualakig amended, but put up no  further argument and made no effort to stop the servants before they  left. “An’ I must say, Miss, young Master Xylophone over there has  healed up mighty nice.”

“Xylophone?” Endymion admonished with a chuckle.

Zoicite shrugged. “They seem to have something against given names. I  think it might have something to do with their own being so hard to  pronounce.”

Both dwarfs snuffed at that, turning up their noses. “Jus’ ‘cause  you can’t say them doesn’t mean they’re hard to say.”

Zoicite grinned.

“I was sayin’, though,” Qualakig continued, tugging on his thick  beard, “that although ‘is wounds are doin’ lots better now, we don’  think he’s ever gonna recover ‘is eyesight. Snowball thinks as much. ” The dwarfs nodded seriously, looking for all like they were medical  experts. From the looks of the bandages over Zoicite’s eyes, though,  no one thought to dispute them.

Jadeite looked back up at his brother Zoicite, still sitting on the  throne. “Do your eyes hurt?”

Shrugging, the injured prince rubbed a finger over the cloth. “It’s  not so bad. Raye gave me some tea with a few special herbs before we  left. I think they’ve been helping with the pain.”

“We’ll have some more solutions prepared if the pain comes back, of  course,” the queen said, carefully squeezing her son’s hand.

“To lose your love and your sight in one day,” Seiya’s haunting  voice sounded from behind the throne. “How very tragic.” The sadness  evident on his face almost made it seem that the tattoo tear was real,  but beneath the gloomy overcast of his expression, the smallest hint of  a smile glittered in his black eyes, as though he were seeing something  beautiful that no one else could see.

“I wish I could meet this old hag,” Hota said from his shoulder,  folding her arms firmly against her chest. “She sounds like quite the  character.”

“Not to mention this girl of yours,” Andrew pointed out, his pink  lips curling mischievously.

Zoicite’s head lowered, his face paling noticeably. “She is not my  girl. I have lost her, before I truly had her. Lord knows where she is  now.” His voice began to shake. “Lord knows what that witch has done  to her.”

“Well, there’s only one way to find out,” Andrew said.

“Perhaps we should go on a little journey tomorrow,” taunted Hota,  her eyes glimmering. The three guardians simultaneously raised their  gazes to Serena, who gulped beneath their burning gazes.

“Zoicite’s right, you know,” she said. “She could be anywhere by  now.”

“What else would you recommend?” Seiya drawled.

“Please,” Zoicite said abruptly, rising from the chair. He grasped  Jadeite’s arm with one hand to steady himself and held up the other in  protest. “I will not involve you all in this. This is my mess. This is  my tragedy. I will not have you all risking your lives because I was  weak. Besides,” he sighed, “I cannot face Amy again. I failed her  when she most needed me. She must hate me. Certainly she has no need of  me.”

“You can’t possibly believe that!” Serena cried, grabbing onto  Zoicite’s hand. “You don’t fall in love with someone because they  can rescue you, especially when they’re poised against a powerful  sorceress! You fall in love with someone because they make you smile,  because they bring a light into your life and fill something inside of  you that no one else can. Did Rapunzel do this for you?”

Zoicite said nothing, but his body spoke loudly for him. Of course she  had.

“Well I have no doubt that you did it for her. She called you her  prince. Hers. If you don’t go back to her, that would be the true  failing. I’ll go with you. I don’t know what I’ll be able to do, but  I will do all I can. And Seiya, Andrew, and Hota will come with us,  too.”

“As will I!” Gralogwid shouted agreeably, holding up his fist. “I’ ve been achin’ for a good ol’-fashioned witch hunt!”

“An’ I’m with you, too, Soy Breath!”

“I’ll be with you, as well, brother,” Jadeite said. “I’ll be your  eyes.”

“Hold on a minute!” Endymion yelled, throwing up his hands. “Have  you all lost your minds? We have no idea what this woman is capable of.  Do you think those thorns just jumped to life of their own accord? Do  you think that tower just built itself? And how many old women do you  know who could single-handedly, effortlessly, throw Zoicite out of a  window? We don’t know where she is, who she is, or even what she is,  and you all want to charge up there on some foolish crusade. And  Zoicite has only begun to heal! Do you really want to send him on this  mad goose chase wrapped up in bandages?”

“Would you rather he stay miserable and heartbroken the rest of his  life?” Serena growled, both hands firmly on her hips. “I don’t think  we can afford to miss this opportunity. What if Amy’s in danger?”  Endymion rolled his eyes, making Serena seethe beneath her skin. “What  if it was you, Endymion? What if you knew that you had one chance to be  with the love of your life—the only woman that you will ever be able  to truly love—and you let it slip through your fingers? His wounds  will heal. His heart might not.” She glared up at him and waited as he  glared stubbornly back. Endymion clenched his jaw as he looked into the  passionate fire in her blue eyes. Finally, exhaling an exasperated  breath, Endymion returned his gaze to his brother.

“Are you really going to go along with this, Zoicite?”

Zoicite gulped. “What she says is right. It may be a huge mistake, but  I see no other choice. If I ever want to be with Amy . . . or even just  to know that she is safe, it will be worth it.”

After sweeping a slow, bitter look at the group preparing to charge  into the sunset and risk their lives against a witch, Endymion finally  let his shoulders slump unhappily. “Fine,” he growled, glancing  heatedly at Serena, before folding his arms and looking up at the lofty  ceiling. “If Jadeite is your eyes, then I am your sword.” He glanced  down at Serena again. “But I still think you’re crazy.”

“I can live with that,” she responded.

A strange tenseness clenched Endymion’s stomach as he looked at her,  watching her anger melt away to gratefulness, perhaps even pride.  Shaking his head, he turned away and began walking back toward the main  hall. “If anyone needs me, I’ll be sharpening my weapons.”

Soon after, the servants announced the preparation of the feast, but  Endymion did not come down to join them.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
After supper was eaten and the travelers had made plans for the  following morning, Serena set out to find their missing companion. He  had left the ballroom angry—and she knew most of that anger was  directed at her. Whether it was because she’d encouraged Zoicite to go  find Rapunzel in the first place, or because she was encouraging him to  do it again, she wasn’t sure. And if it had been anyone else, she  thought she could have let the misdirected resentment roll right off  her, but the thought of Endymion harboring any such feelings made her  lose her appetite and filled her stomach with nerves. Besides, she was  sure it would be bad luck to start on such a crusade with ill will  between any of the companions. She had to make amends with the prince  before they left the next morning.
With that goal in mind, she’d decided to bring him food.

It certainly couldn’t hurt any.

It wasn’t difficult to find him as she traced her steps back to the  weapon room she had earlier discovered. The forlorn suit of armor still  lay collapsed and broken, half-concealed by the blue drape that hung  over the stairway. At first glance the room looked undisturbed and  Serena thought that perhaps Endymion had gone to another weapon room— surely the castle had more than one—but noting that the sconces were  lit made her think perhaps he’d come through after all. Approaching  the door, she pulled back the curtain and looked down at the armor. The  gauntlet that had fallen off and tripped her before had been replaced  haphazardly on its arm.

Pursing her lips, she quietly crept up the stairwell—which was now  dark with the coming of night, but a warm orange light at the top kept  her climbing. Finally, she reached the little round room and found  Endymion sitting at the spinning wheel, polishing a sword in his lap  just as he had said he would be. At his feet rested a few daggers and a  short sword.

“What do you want?” he asked without looking up. His ebony bangs fell  into his eyes.

“I brought you something to eat,” Serena said, showing a plate of  sliced meat and cheeses.

“Not hungry.”

“Then don’t eat it,” she said, already feeling irritation welling up  in her. Couldn’t he be the slightest bit grateful?

Taking a deep breath, she shoved the emotion down and set the plate on  the floor, directly in his line of sight. After a moment spent  awkwardly teetering on her feet, she asked, “Do you come here often?”  Then she flinched at the stupidity of the question.

“No,” he answered. “I’d forgotten it was here, actually.”

“Oh. But you knew about it before?”

He sighed and was silent for a long time, until Serena began to think  he was ignoring her, until he finally answered impassively, “We used  to play hide-and-seek when we were kids. Jade found it once and showed  it to us, and we used to come up here to escape the servants or Mom and  Dad, especially when there was a banquet or something that we were  supposed to attend. But that was a long time ago.” He looked up at her  for the first time. “You know, there are servants who have been her  for sixty years who probably don’t know about this place, and you’ve  been here for, what, six days?”

Serena kicked awkwardly at a pile of straw. “I kind of found it by  accident.”

“Obviously,” he said with a snort and returned to his polishing.

“I wanted to thank you,” she stuttered nervously, curling a lock of  hair around her fingers. “…for joining us on this, um, mission.  Everyone says you’re the best hunter in the kingdom. Your skills will  help a lot.” Her heart was beating fast, her throat dry as she looked  at him, desperately trying to forget his sinfully good looks and focus  rather on her fading conversational skills.

“I’m not doing it for you.”

“I know that.”

“And I still think it’s a bad idea. You do realize we got lucky  before, right? That witch could have killed Zoicite. I’m amazed she  didn’t. And do you realize, Lady Serena, that any blood spilled on  this witch hunt will be on your hands? This whole charade, everything  that’s happened, all comes back to you. You may have saved my niece’s  life, but I’m not so convinced you’re the blessing to this kingdom  that everyone thinks you are.”

Serena tried to keep her breathing steady as anger and hurt welled  inside of her—sinfully good looks forgotten. “How can you be so  cruel? Zoicite is in love with her! Don’t you think they should be  together?”

Rolling his eyes, Endymion stuck the sword through the spokes of the  wheel. The metal clanged hollowly against the wood. “Love, love, love.  I’m so sick of hearing about love!”

“And what is so wrong with love?” Serena’s voice rose to meet his.

“Oh, please. Love in this land is a joke. A guy sees a pretty face and  is head over heels. ‘She smiled at me, we must be meant to be  together.’ ‘She can spin straw into gold, she must be the one.’  ‘Our parents want us to marry, so she must be the love of my life,’”  he mimicked sarcastically, climbing to his feet and kicking the daggers  away. “Well it doesn’t always work that way!”

Serena’s furiously beating heart began to slow, the redness ebbing  from her face.

“Lord, don’t look at me that way,” Endymion growled, pacing around  the room. “He’s my brother. Of course I want him to be happy. I want  all of them to be happy.”

“You deserve to be happy too, Endymion.”

He paused, fuming, before slowly turning to face her and allowing a  crooked smile to make its way over his lips. “Yeah, that would just  make your day, wouldn’t it?”

Serena flushed. “Excuse me?”

“You seem to be on this mad crusade to make us all fall in love. First  Nephlite and the scullery maid—”

“Lita’s a chef.”

“—and now you’re pitching poor delusional Zoicite, newly blinded,  mind you, against a witch. What are you going to do to me, Serena?  Poison me with some love potion on my wedding day? Lock me up until I  concede to try and break her curse?”

“You’ve only met Briar Rose once, and were you even old enough to  remember? How do you know she’s not—”

“The One?” Endymion laughed. “Let me ask you, Serena, have you ever  felt it? This passionate romance you believe so strongly in?”

Serena gaped. “Look around you! How can you possibly not believe in it  when it’s everywhere. Your parents, Malachite and Mina—”

“I asked about you.”

Serena gulped, staring up at his forebodingly serious gaze.

“I know what love is,” she finally whispered, lowering her gaze.

“You’re lucky then. I don’t.”

“Perhaps you choose not to.”

“Perhaps.” Endymion peered at her through tousled bangs a moment,  before sighing and pacing to a window, staring out at a darkening sky.  “You asked me earlier what I would do in Zoicite’s position. If I had  only one chance to find my true love, would I let it slip through my  fingers? Well, no, Serena, I wouldn’t.” He chuckled wryly. “Instead,  I would take that chance in my hand and throw it as far as I could,  then run like hell in the other direction. Love is more trouble, and  more pain, than it’s worth.”

Serena’s throat went dry. It was the most cynical and dismissive view  on love she had ever heard.

She shook her head. “You pretend to be brave, Prince Endymion, but  only a true coward would be so terrified of the most beautiful thing in  the world.” His eyes flashed but she could not tell with what emotion.  She sighed. “You may look, and talk, and act like the Darien I knew  back home, but I see now you cannot possibly be him. He would never run  away from love.” She said it uncertainly, thinking back to the ever- popular Darien Shields—who never had a girlfriend.

“Then go back to him,” Endymion muttered, interrupting her thoughts,  “And leave us alone.”

Silently, Serena left the room, the plate of food still on the floor.  An hour later, the plate was empty.

Chapter 13: The Witch Sisters
They saw a beautiful snow-white bird sitting on a bough.
It flew away, and they followed it until they reached a little house
that was built of bread and covered with cakes and sugar.
from Hansel and Gretel

“The tower is gone, isn’t it?” Zoicite asked, his wavering voice  just above a whisper. Serena looked at his bandaged eyes sadly, then  turned back to the field before them. Zoicite had brought them there  directly, his loss of sight seeming not to have affected his sense of  direction, or perhaps it was some sort of intuitive magnetism to this  spot. Throughout their journey, which had begun before dawn and lasted  into late afternoon, the prince had acted as though he was attached to  an invisible string pulling him steadily forward. But now, standing on  the edge of a thorn-filled meadow, the string had evaporated and  Zoicite stood looking lost and weary.

“There’s nothing here,” Jadeite confirmed quietly. “Only a big  field with a lot of thorns.”

“I bet these thorns are familiar,” Endymion said, walking forward. He  reached into their branches and pulled free a scrap of blue cloth. “I  found part of your cloak.”

Zoicite hardly seemed to hear him. He turned his head side to side as  if listening for something no one else could hear. Inhaling a deep  breath, he raised his face toward the sky. “Is there a path?”

“Yes,” Seiya responded, taller than any of the other companions. “It  leads to the center of the thorns, then disappears.”

“Take me there.”

Holding onto Zoicite’s elbow, Serena followed Seiya toward the path,  the group followed behind them. The little trail took them to an open  space untouched by the briars. It was large and round and bare, as if  it had not been an open space for long. Of course, they all recognized  immediately that it had not.

Gently shaking Serena away from him, Zoicite left his friends and  walked into the center. The dirt was hard and compact beneath his feet.  With a loud sigh, he collapsed to his knees in the center of it. His  fingers dug at the dirt, feeling the compact grains beneath his nails.  Filled with anguish, he sat hunched over and silent. No one dared to  approach him or break the spell of his pain, and so they stood  uncomfortably watching.

Finally, Zoicite leaned back, his face to the sun again. “It’s far  past noon,” he said in a broken voice. “We should eat lunch. I’m  sure you’re all famished.”

“We can go back to the horses,” Jadeite suggested, gesturing toward  the forest where they had left the animals. “If you don’t want to  stay here.”

Shaking his head, Zoicite murmured, “No, this will be fine. It’s as  good a place for a picnic as any.”

Qualakig and Gralogwid, having carried the food packs on the journey,  began setting out different cheeses, olives, and cured meats. The  dwarfs had filled the morning ride with lighthearted jokes and banter,  but Zoicite’s remorse seemed to have left them speechless with  sympathy. Soon, the other companions joined them in the dirt circle and  began sharing a meal that was tasteless, flavored only with  disappointment.

Not long after they had started eating, a small blue and yellow sparrow  flittered down to a thorn branch beside them and sang a sweet song.  Zoicite turned toward it, carefully setting down the cheese he had been  nibbling as the bird hopped down to the dirt and twittered again. The  light voice, though chipper, seemed to ring with a distinct question,  and a sad smile crept onto Zoicite’s face.

“It’s wondering where the tower is,” he mused. “And where the angel  with the pretty singing voice has gone.”

After a quiet moment, Gralogwid leaned over to Jadeite and muttered  beneath his breath, “Has ‘e always been able to talk to animals?”

Jadeite bit his tongue against a laugh and did not answer.

The bird skipped forward cautiously, landing on the ground before  Zoicite. Gralogwid tensed, fingering an axe that hung at his belt.

“Careful, there, Master Zinfandel. Could be an enchantment,” he  growled beneath his breath.

“Don’t be silly,” said Zoicite, holding a finger toward the bird as  it sang again. “It’s just a poor, lonesome thing.” Cooing  confidently, Zoicite gestured at the bird, who flew up and perched on  his finger. “See, it’s quite friendly.”

The dwarf growled skeptically, but withdrew his hand from the weapon.

Smiling, Zoicite brought the bird up to eye-level. “I know, little  bird. You’re wondering where the beautiful girl has gone and why she  won’t sing with you anymore. I miss her, too. I’ve lost her, too.”  The bird tilted its head and chirped a tune, then left his finger and  flew back into the thorns. Zoicite sighed wistfully. “I’ll never see  her again.”

Serena was about to encourage him not to give up hope, but Seiya’s  hand on her shoulder stopped her. He shook his head sadly and she lost  her words, lowering her gaze. Silently, she relinquished that perhaps  at times it was best to lose the hope. Of course, she knew that he and  Rapunzel were meant to be together. But in the story, the prince  wandered for years before he found her again, living a poor and  miserable life. Seiya’s forte was tragedy. Perhaps she needed to let  time take its course. Perhaps the pain was necessary before the love  and happy ending. She licked the juices from a ripe peach off of her  fingers and threw the seed into the bushes.

“We should head back. If we’re going to have to make camp we’ll need  to find some decent shelter.”

The group nodded their consent and gathered their things. The bird  chirped furiously a moment, then fluttered down to peck at the leftover  crumbs.

“Goodbye, bird,” Zoicite said, the hint of a smile on his lips. “I  hope you find another friend.” But as they walked down the path toward  the wood, the bird followed them, singing its thanks for the snack.

Jadeite laughed, responding to Zoicite’s statement with, “Perhaps it ’s found one in you.”

“Go on, bird. Go back to your nest. . . . You don’t suppose his nest  was on the tower, do you?” Zoicite asked to no one in particular.

“I’m sure the bird will be fine,” Endymion said, leading the band to  the horses. When they reached them, he offered a hand to Serena to help  her up, which she gratefully accepted. Looking into his eyes, she’d  expected to see anger and annoyance at this wild goose chase that she  was sure, in his mind, was completely her fault. However, his face was  uneasy and filled with melancholy, the sadness of the moment having  affected even him. She thanked him softly as she settled into the  saddle. Without responding, he turned and easily mounted his own  chocolate-brown mare.

When they’d all been comfortably seated, except for the dwarfs who  preferred to have their feet firmly on the ground, Serena noticed the  bird still singing to them. It had perched itself on an overhanging  branch over Zoicite’s shoulder.

“Perhaps it intends to follow us home,” Andrew suggested.

“No, it will soon tire of following us,” Zoicite said and spurred his  horse. He and the elf shared the animal, Andrew holding the reigns.

The bird did follow them, however, flittering ahead down the path. It  would land and sing until they caught up before skipping ahead again.  Serena found the noise cheerful and calming, but soon noticed Endymion  frowning in its direction. Forcing the horse to a trot, she rode up  beside him. “What’s wrong?” she asked in a hushed voice.

“I’m beginning to wonder if Gralogwid was right. There’s something  suspicious about that bird.”

As if in response, the bird twittered innocently, then flew ahead  again. Endymion followed it with his eyes. It landed in the center of a  forked trail, pecking at something in the dirt. As the horses  approached, it skittered to the right, out of their line of vision.

“What do you think it could be?”

Endymion shrugged. “You’re the expert on this land’s oddities. You  tell me.”

Frowning, Serena racked her brain for the many stories in which animals  talked, whispering hints to good hunters and helpless children, or when  humans had been transformed into birds by some enchantment, but these  were almost always swans or crows. She could think of no mention of an  enchanted blue and yellow sparrow.

“Well, whatever might be unusual about it, I suppose we aren’t going  to find out,” she said, gesturing in the direction it had gone. “It’ s going the wrong way.”

Endymion grunted suspiciously.

As they neared the fork, the bird came back into view. It pecked again  at the trail, then sang and turned its head, looking up at them through  its round black eyes.

“What has it found?” Jadeite asked from behind, then explained to  Zoicite how it had stopped in the middle of the trail. Seeing that all  eyes were on it, the bird flew a few feet farther and pecked again.

Leaving Seiya’s shoulder, where she had comfortably perched, Hota  fluttered down to the bird. It hopped away, eyeing the fairy  speculatively.

“Breadcrumbs,” Hota said, hovering in the air above the trail. “A  whole slew of them down this trail. I don’t see an end to them.”  Turning, she stared directly at Serena. Seiya and Andrew looked at her  as well.

“A trail of breadcrumbs,” she whispered to herself, then sighed.

“How terribly fascinating,” Endymion mumbled sarcastically. “I’m so  glad that mystery is solved. Now let’s go home.”

The bird twittered, hopping to the next crumb as Endymion urged his  mare down the opposite trail. When Serena didn’t follow, he looked  back with an agitated glare.

“What?” he muttered, noticing her distraught gaze.

Serena pulled on a lock of her hair. “You all go on ahead. There’s  something I need to check out.”

“What do you mean?” Endymion growled, all signs of sadness gone from  his face. “Where are you going?”

“This way. Don’t worry, I’ll be fine,” she said, turning her horse  down the path that the bird had taken.

“Of course she’ll be fine. We’re going with her. Seiya? Andrew?”  Hota landed on Seiya’s shoulder again and he silently turned his horse  to follow Serena.

Andrew turned to Zoicite over his shoulder. “My apologies, Prince  Zoicite. You would be better served riding with one of your brothers  from here on.”

The prince only shook his head, though. “No, I’ll come too. The bird  came to me. Perhaps it’s trying to tell me something.”

“Or perhaps it’s just a bird who has stumbled on a very convenient  dinner,” Endymion growled, contradicting his previous suspicions.

“Endymion’s probably right,” said Serena. “I’ll just be a minute.  You all go on ahead and I’ll catch up.”

Stubbornly shaking his head, Zoicite rubbed a finger over his eyes’  bandages. “No, I will come with you. I am in no hurry to return to the  castle.”

“Then we’re comin’ too!” bellowed Qualakig. “Promised we’d get  you home safely, Zoy-Boy. Can’t very well leave you now.” Gralogwid  grunted his agreement.

Endymion moaned disgustedly, running a hand through his hair. Jadeite  looked at each of his brothers, smiling. “What do you say, Endymion?  Can’t very well leave him all alone with these fools, can we?”

Sighing, Endymion rolled his eyes up toward the canopy of trees. “No,  I guess we can’t.”

They followed the bird for nearly a mile as it skipped from crumb to  crumb. Even when it became full and stopped nibbling at the free snack,  it continued down the path, always a few feet in front of them.  Conversation became sparse and with Endymion sulking at the end of  their line, Serena felt little desire to talk to anyone else. At first  she was preoccupied with watching the bird and the breadcrumbs,  thinking of two helpless children bravely wandering the woods together,  and stumbling onto a dangerous candy house…

But the trek was so long that eventually Serena could dream of the  famous tale of Hansel and Gretel no longer and instead found herself  enjoying the ride. She relished the feel of the horse’s strong muscles  beneath her. Having been raised in the city, her experience with riding  had been limited to merry-go-rounds and $5 pony rides at the annual  carnival. Despite her inexperience, though, she found that she took to  the practice quite easily. The horse was well-behaved and required  little prompting on her behalf. Despite some aching in her thighs, she  enjoyed the experience. Smiling whimsically, she closed her eyes,  listening to the bird’s singing in her ears and feeling the spotted  sun spattering on her skin when it could escape the forest’s canopy  above. Now, more than any other time of her entire adventure in this  strange land, did she feel like she was truly in a fairy tale. How  could these woods not be enchanted?

Opening her eyes, she looked over her shoulder. Prince Endymion was  looking at her, as if searching for something he expected to find in  her features, but he turned quickly away and Serena scanned the rest of  the group and pretended not to notice that he’d been watching her. An  awkward blush flooded her cheeks.

“What’s that?” Andrew asked. Serena quickly turned and followed his  pointing finger to see a spot of bright colors through the trees.

“It looks like a house,” said Jadeite.

Serena gulped, her suspicions confirmed at the sight of a sugar plum  chimney and candy cane gate. “We should leave the horses here,” she  advised, urging her horse to stop and sliding carefully out of the  saddle. The rest followed and Jadeite set about tying up the animals.

“Strangest house I ever saw,” Endymion muttered, glaring at the  cottage with unbridled distrust.

“It seems to be made of candy,” Andrew clarified for Zoicite, who was  sniffing curiously at the air.

“Do I smell something baking?” he asked.

“Maybe it’s the walls. Is that gingerbread?”

“No, it smells more like . . .”

Serena held her breath. Though she could smell nothing, she was sure  that Zoicite’s senses had heightened with the loss of his sight. She  thought of the story, Hansel and Gretel, and the evil witch who planned  to bake the children in her oven for supper and shuddered. What would  baking children smell like?

“...muffins,” Zoicite concluded. “Blueberry, I think.”

Serena exhaled, certain that baked children would not smell like  blueberries.

“Well, are we going to knock?” Jadeite asked. One could almost see  the drool forming in his mouth as he took in licorice window panes and  a solid chocolate door.

The sparrow began singing again, but it was no longer the cheerful  chirping from before, but harsh, warning whistles. Endymion’s frown  deepened. “This was a bad idea. We should leave.”

“Are you kidding? A house made of candy?” Jadeite chuckled. “I think  this is the best idea we’ve had in a long time.”

Shaking his head, Endymion unconsciously slid his fingers over the hilt  of his sword. “Something feels wrong about this place. Something  eerie.”

“Endymion is right,” said Serena. “I don’t think we’re going to  get the warmest welcome inside that house. Besides, I’m the one who  wanted to come, so I’m going to go in—alone.”

“Are you crazy?” Endymion exploded. Serena shot him a harsh glare,  forcing his anger to wither into brooding silence.

“You don’t have to yell. And yes, maybe I am crazy. But I’m getting  sick of you asking me that.”

“Listen, Serena, you are the most defenseless of anyone here, save  maybe the talking butterfly over there.”

“Hey! Who are you calling defenseless?” Hota protested. “I have many  powers you are unaware of, young prince. Never take a fairy too  lightly. Besides—these are dragonfly wings, not butterfly.”

Endymion rolled his eyes, but before he could retort, Serena held up  her hands, begging for quiet again. “This is perfect,” she said as  optimistically as she could. “I’ll take Hota with me. She’s small  and can hide in my pocket. No one will know she’s there, plus she can  get out quickly. You can all cover me from out here, and if Hota comes  out of that house without me, you’ll know I’m in trouble and need  your help.” She nodded decisively, proud of her quickly-formed plan.

Endymion opened his mouth to refute her, but she clamped her hand over  it. “Don’t argue. We can’t go charging up there with nine people. I ’ll be fine. And you’ll be right out here if I need you.”

He glared as she removed her hand. “You’re not telling us something.  You haven’t explained why you brought us here, and you didn’t seem at  all surprised to find a house made of candy in the middle of nowhere.  In fact, you almost act as though you expected it. What exactly do you  expect to find in there, Serena?”

She glanced back at the house and shrugged. “I’m hoping to find  blueberry muffins.” Ignoring Endymion’s further exasperation, she  gestured to Hota and started toward the cottage with the fairy perched  on her shoulder.

Before she raised her hand to knock, Hota climbed into her cloak’s  inner pocket, unhappily but without complaint. Glancing over her  shoulder, Serena could see no sign of her companions but knew they were  there, watching.

“Well, come in, child.”

She gasped, looking back at the chocolate door. Hota peered up at her  from the darkness of the pocket and shrugged. With a deep breath and  shaking hand, Serena reached for the knob—what she assumed was  bubblegum.

Inside, the house was completely different than she had imagined. There  was only one room. A bed sat in the far corner, covered in an old  calico quilt. Beside it were a rocking chair and a small table with an  oil lamp. To her right were a stone fireplace and an iron grill and  stove. Serena could now smell the muffins Zoicite had mentioned, but  there was absolutely no sign of any sweets or candy. Even the chocolate  door she’d walked through appeared wooden on the inside. In the middle  of the room was a round table set with fruits, nuts, and a basket of  cut greens, and surrounded by four small wooden chairs. Two of the  chairs were occupied by two women who looked like they should have  withered away to nothing years ago.

“Take a seat,” one woman said in a voice that was much gentler than  her pointed, bird-like face.

Serena cautiously complied, lowering herself into one of the wooden  chairs, her eyes roving from woman to woman. She had not expected there  to be two of them. The story never mentioned a second witch.

The woman that had spoken pushed the bowl of fruit—almost overflowing  in nectarines, berries, and mangoes—toward Serena. “Eat, child,  please.” At Serena’s wary look, the woman flashed a yellowed smile.  “It keeps people from nibbling at my house.”

Forcing an uncomfortable laugh, Serena began to nibble on a cherry,  discovering it to be seedless and surprisingly delicious. She helped  herself to another.

“Would your friend like anything?”

Serena froze mid-bite, a stem hanging between her lips and fingers.  Forcing herself to swallow a lump of cherry caught at the base of her  throat, she tried to smile. “Friend?”

“The little winged one.” The woman gestured at the pocket where Hota  hid.

Setting the stem on the table, Serena wiped her fingers on her cloak,  knowing the uselessness of denial, yet feeling obligated to try.  However, she was saved from making that decision as Hota crawled out  from the shadows with an exaggerated sigh.

“No, I’m fine, thank you,” she said politely, smoothing the wrinkles  out from her purple dress.

The woman who had spoken shrugged as Hota sat cross-legged on the  table.

“Suit yourself. Dear me, where are my manners? I am Zoe, and this is  my sister, Chloe. It’s a delight to have so much company on this  pretty day. I hardly ever have visitors.”

Serena and Hota smiled politely, but neither offered their names in  return. The woman didn’t seem to notice, or care.

“Perhaps you would prefer a muffin instead of the fruit? They should  be about done. Chloe, would you mind pulling those out?”

“Not at all.” Chloe removed her suspicious eyes from Serena and  pushed herself away from the table. Although her body appeared frail  and weak, she strode to the stove with grace. Her posture seemed suited  for a queen and was only beginning to betray her age with the slightest  unnatural curve between her neck and shoulders.

Serena’s attention snapped away from Chloe as her sister began  speaking again.

“Perhaps your other friends would like muffins as well?”

Feeling her palms starting to sweat, Serena hid them beneath her cloak  and forced her voice to remain steady. “Friends?”

“Indeed, child. I believe I heard . . . six others?”

Clasping her fingers together, Serena scrolled through the list of her  companions in her head as the fresh scent of blueberries and batter  dove into her nostrils. Three princes, two guardians, and two dwarfs  she thought. Seven. There are seven of them. She must have heard the  horses, since Zoicite and Andrew were sharing one.

“Yes, six others. But I don’t believe they were hungry.”

“Well, why don’t you invite them in and let them answer for their own  stomachs? You may be surprised at the appetite one can work up in this  place.” She grinned knowingly as Serena’s stomach erupted in a growl.  “Or perhaps you wouldn’t be surprised at all.” She cackledas Serena  lowered her head embarrassedly.

They had eaten only a short time ago. How could she possible be hungry  already? But the answer did not elude her long as the classic story of  Hansel and Gretel crept into her thoughts again. Zoe must be trying to  fatten her up, as she did all children. Perhaps the house is cursed.  Cursed to induce hunger.

Her musing was extinguished by a loud thump and what sounded like a  whimper. She looked at the wood-planked floor in surprise but saw  nothing.

“The rats!” Zoe squealed, clasping her hands together before bursting  again into hysterical cackling.

“Eat, child,” Chloe commanded, practically slamming a tray of muffins  in front of Serena. They were still steaming, the berries black and  oozing reminded her of open wounds. Serena, who usually loved blueberry  muffins, thought she might be sick.

“Eat,” Chloe repeated, and Serena caught a glimpse of jagged, urine- colored teeth. The drool that had earlier accumulated in her mouth  turned sour and she swallowed hard, looking again at the muffins. “And  we’ll go fetch your friends.” Chloe moved away and Serena gasped for  the breath she hadn’t realized she’d lost.

Turning in her chair, she opened her mouth—to scream a warning to the  others or to call the witches back, she wasn’t sure. But just as Chloe  reached the door, Zoe right behind her, Hota landed on Serena’s  shoulder.

“Chosen One,” she whispered fervently into her ear. “The floor! Over  by the beds! Look!”

Praying that her companions were still well-hidden, Serena tore her  gaze from the old women as they stepped into the daylight. She  immediately saw what Hota had indicated: a small, closed door, two by  two feet, cut out of the floorboards.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Endymion checked that his sword was loose in its scabbard. Wiping his  sweaty palms on his tunic, he turned to look at his companions. Andrew  was tending the horses, making sure they kept quiet, Zoicite sat with  one ear cocked toward the wind, and the rest were watching the cottage  anxiously.
Endymion growled beneath his breath and began pacing back and forth. “ This is absurd!” he hissed. One of the dwarfs shushed him, but he only  raised his voice. “They could be in danger in there! What if something  happened and neither of them could get out? We need to go make sure  they’re okay. Are we just going to sit here all day, assuming that  everything’s fine?”

“Endymion, have a little faith,” Jadeite muttered, shoving berries  that he had scavenged into his mouth. “Hota could make it out if  anything was amiss, and Serena seems like the kind of girl who could  talk her way out of a dragon’s mouth. Just give them a little time.”

“How much time does it take for a dragon to devour its prey, exactly? ” he spat.

“Hush, I hear something,” Zoicite interrupted. They all turned to the  cottage to see the front door being thrown open and two old women  stepping into the sunlight.

“Where’s Serena?” Endymion whispered to himself. “If they did  anything to her…”

“Oh, woods people,” one woman, the shorter of the two, called. “Won ’t you come join us for lunch? We have some lovely muffins, fresh from  the oven.”

The companions exchanged glances. Endymion was the first to answer to  the invitation as he stood up and walked fearlessly into the clearing,  his hand poised at his sword’s hilt.

Clapping a hand onto Zoicite’s shoulder, Jadeite whispered, “Wait  here,” and went to join his other brother. The rest of the group  followed suit and the two old women soon found themselves facing three  princes, two guardians, and two dwarfs.

Zoe’s grin widened. “And what a feast ye shall make.”

“Where’s Serena?” Endymion asked gruffly.

“And Hota,” added Andrew.

“Oh, they’re right inside, enjoying some delicious muffins,” said  Chloe. “They were done just in time for your visit. Just in time to  make room in the oven.” She chortled lowly and her sister’s lips  stretched tightly over her teeth in a horrid grin. “But dear me, it’s  such a very little oven, how can I fit… er… feed six grown men such  as yourselves?” She exchanged a wicked smile with her companion, who  raised her hands, fingers outstretched.

“Ah, I have the perfect solution.”

A cloud of smoke erupted from Zoe’s hands, immediately followed by an  iridescent black chain that shot out and spun around Andrew, faster  than eyes could follow. Once it faded away, Andrew was gone; in his  place stood a raven, onyx-black, with bright green eyes and white- tipped wings.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena searched desperately for a handle to the hidden door in the  floorboards but could find nothing, nor could she get her fingers far  enough into the cracks to lift it. Growling, she pounded at it with her  fists to no avail.
She thought she heard a muffled scream for help and forced herself to  try again, digging her nails into the opening until she felt a splinter  lodge itself into the soft skin. She yelped and pulled away with a  furious cry. “How do you open this thing?” she screeched, kicking at  it with her heel. “There isn’t even a hinge!”

“Stand back,” commanded Hota. “Maybe it’s magic.”

Serena backed away, grateful to hand momentary responsibility to the  guardian, and looked at her finger. The tiny wood shard was lodged deep  beneath her nail and she clenched her teeth and hoped it wouldn’t  become infected, then turned her attention back to the fairy.

Hota perched in the center of the trap door and turned around a few  times, surveying the cottage. “It is enchanted. I can feel a spell, a  locking spell, I think. Which means there’s a key somewhere…” she  trailed off, her tiny lips turning into a frown and her brow pulling  down. “But where?”

Serena scanned the near-empty room, then shook her head. “Nothing  looks very enchanted to me. Well, except for the whole candy thing.  What does a locking spell look like?”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Endymion and Jadeite drew their swords, Gralogwid and Qualakig their  axes, and charged the witches. Zoe only cackled and a moment later, two  more ravens stood in the places of Jadeite and Gralogwid. Chloe side- stepped Qualakig’s attack and sighed disinterestedly as her sister  sent the black chain toward the remaining prince. He swung at it with  his sword but it only sliced through air and with an anguished scream,  Endymion felt the chain tighten around his body.
Zoe smirked at the fourth raven with ebony-black feathers and furious  blue eyes and turned to see her old sister dodging the red-haired dwarf ’s attacks like a gymnast. With a flick of her hand, Zoe turned  Qualakig into a raven and winked gleefully.

Chloe did not return the look, but glanced over her ally’s shoulder  with a glare.

Zoe turned just in time to see Seiya’s sword, aimed at her heart, turn  into a red vine. His expression betrayed no surprise and his attack  immediately changed to a swing. Zoe screeched in pain as the whip of  licorice collided with her cheek. She clapped a hand to her stinging  face.

“Candy, Chloe?” she wailed.

Her sister shrugged unapologetically.

Growling, Zoe raised her hands and just as Seiya prepared for another  swing, the black chain wrapped around his chest. A moment later,  another raven—the blackest of them all—joined his five companions  squawking in the meadow.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“The oven!” Hota cried, pointing. “It’s got to be around there!”
Serena turned and looked at the stove. “Are you sure?” she asked  nervously.

“Yes. Quickly!”

“What exactly am I looking for?” Serena asked as she lunged toward  the iron stove. She peered around it, holding her hands nervously to  her chest.

“I’m not sure. Anything out of the ordinary. What’s wrong? You look  like it’s going to bite you.”

“It’s just… how many kids do you think have been put into this oven? ”

Hota rolled her eyes. “There’s going to be more than a couple kids in  it if you don’t hurry up!”

Serena sighed and reached for the handle, still warm from the muffins.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Chloe dusted her hands on her apron. “We’re getting helpless in our  old age, Zoe. Can barely take on six humans alone anymore. Terrible  shame.”
“Three humans. You’re getting your races mixed up again.”

“Bah, they’re all the same.”

“And you barely helped at all. Licorice. Honestly!”

Her sister ignored her and admired the birds in her yard. “They’ll  all make lovely eating, won’t they? Mm… raven stew, baked raven,  raven biscuits…” Chloe’s hungry list was cut short by a sharp intake  of breath from her sister. She turned toward her, frowning.

“What is it?”

Her only response was a painful gurgling in Zoe’s throat. As Chloe  watched, a dribble of blood escaped the woman’s lips and she fell  forward onto her knees, then collapsed to the grass. A long arrow  jutted up from between her shoulder blades.

Chloe screamed, calling her sister’s name in fear and surprise, then  looked up toward the trees. There stood another man with long, wavy  blonde hair, bandages wrapped around his eyes, and a bow in his hands  with another arrow already cocked. “You!” she growled furiously as  Zoe’s blood pooled beneath her boots. Gathering her skirt in her  fists, she stepped over her sister’s gasping body and marched toward  the blinded prince. Zoicite took a nervous step back, turning one ear  toward her. His hand began to shake on the bow’s string.

Chloe cackled. “I don’t know how you made that lucky shot, boy, but  you’re not feeling so confident now, are you?” she hissed, and raised  her crooked fingers toward him as magic cackled at their tips.

Zoicite steadied his feet, clenched his jaw, and let the arrow fly.

Chapter 14: Reunited
Rapunzel knew him and fell on his neck and wept. Two of her tears  wetted
his eyes and they grew clear again, and he could see with them as  before.
from Rapunzel

Zoicite’s arrow skimmed Chloe’s shoulder, leaving a tear in her dress  and a bead of blood. She cackled.

“For your blind ignorance, I think I’ll make blackbird pie out of  you,” she hissed and raised her hands. A cloud of black smoke formed  around her fingers. Zoicite reached for another arrow, backing away.  His foot collided with a stone and he stumbled back onto the dirt. The  arrow fell from his grip as he struggled to climb back to his feet.

Chloe laughed again, gleefully.

“Not if we make pie out of you first!” yelled Hota from the chocolate  doorway.

Chloe turned to the fairy in time to see a stream of orange light  hurtling toward her. It collided with her chest and her momentary  screech faded into the silence of the clearing. Her short, round body  had become that of a short, round pumpkin.

Hota fluttered her violet wings proudly as the six birds in the yard  began to glow and morph back to their human, or elfin, or dwarfish  forms. Serena marched out of the house, avoiding the puddle of Zoe’s  blood that was beginning to sink into the earth, and picked up the  pumpkin by its thick stem.

“I know just what to do with this,” she stated, returning to the  house where a little boy and girl stood holding open the oven door.  Serena popped the pumpkin in, the door was shut, and they all grinned  at a job well done.

In the yard, Jadeite shook his head, trying to rid himself of the  leftover feelings of the enchantment. “I always thought it would be  fun to be a bird, but I think I’m over it.”

Zoicite, panting from exertion, heard someone calling his name. He sat  upright, his head whipping from side to side. “Amy?”

Everyone in the clearing turned to see a beautiful girl with cropped,  ragged blue hair running out of the forest toward the blinded prince.

“Yes, it’s me!” she said, laughing, though her eyes were worried as  she collapsed to her knees beside Zoicite.

“Amy! How… why… Is it really you? How did you get here?”

“I’ve been here. I’ve been following you. Or, more, you’ve been  following me.” She reached up her hands and lovingly soothed down  Zoicite’s long blonde hair. “Oh, my poor prince,” she murmured,  running a hand along the blindfold. “Look what that witch has done to  you.”

He reached up and grabbed her hands, grinning, his own injuries  forgotten at the sound of her voice. “Amy, I don’t understand. You’ re safe? You’re all right?”

“I’m fine. The worst she did to me was turn me into a bird,” she  laughed lyrically, bringing Zoicite’s hands to her lips and kissing  his knuckles. “Not like what she did to you.”

“You were the sparrow! You brought us here.”

She nodded. “Yes, that was me. And you’ve killed that witch and  broken my curse, even blinded. You’re far braver than any story prince  I’ve ever read about.”

Zoicite lowered his head as a blush crept into his cheeks, but Amy  quickly lifted it again with a finger beneath his chin. “May I see the  harm she’s done to you?” she whispered and began untying the  blindfold without waiting for a response. Zoicite didn’t argue,  entranced by the feelings of her gentle fingers brushing against his  skin and hair. A moment later she pulled away the makeshift scarf and  unwrapped the bandages beneath, revealing the gashes and swollen scars  across his lids. Though the caked blood and scabs and blackened bruises  were horrifying to see, Amy didn’t even flinch. She ran a finger  lovingly across his closed eyes. “Oh, my prince,” she murmured,  leaning forward and brushing her lips against each one, before wrapping  her arms around him and cradling his head against her neck.

Zoicite tied his arms tightly around her waist. “I’ll be all right,”  he said, and his voice was filled with nothing but ecstasy. “I have my  life. I’ve found you again. The only part that saddens me is that I  will never again look into your beautiful blue eyes.” Pulling slightly  out of her embrace, he reached up and cupped her face in his hands,  tilting her face toward him. “But no matter. I’ve already memorized  their color.”

Amy smiled as two tears slipped from her eyes and ran down her pale  cheeks. They were part sorrow at seeing her beloved in pain, but mostly  joy at being beside him again and looking into his face—which, though  scarred, remained beautiful in her gaze.

The tears crept slowly down and dripped from her chin, splashing onto  Zoicite face, one into each blinded eye. And where they landed, the  bruises and dried blood disappeared, as if nothing more than dirt  washed away. Amy gasped, watching the swelling subside and scarring  fade away, the bruised complexion become once again fair and flawless.  It spread seamlessly across his lids, his brow, his cheeks. Then  Zoicite’s eyes fluttered open, his lashes long and black and his green  irises clear and shining as he looked up at her.

They stared at each other in awe and a charmed silence settled over the  glen.

Finally, a long moment later, Zoicite smiled, brushed away the  remaining trails of tears on Amy’s face, and whispered, “Marry me.”

She laughed and suddenly her tears were falling too fast for Zoicite to  brush away. Neither cared. She wrapped her arms around his neck and  buried her face in his hair. “All right,” she breathed. “All right. ”

Slowly, the rest of the group began to turn away, feeling that as the  magic of the moment faded, they were stuck watching something that  should be very private. The two dwarfs, Gralogwid and Qualakig, looked  more embarrassed than any of them and they frowned deeply to hide the  blushes that were forming behind their beards. Looking back toward the  house, Gralogwid noticed Serena standing there holding the hands of a  little boy and a little girl.

“Oy, looks like you’ve picked up a couple o’ stragglers there, Miss  Rena.”

Grateful for the diversion, the group quickly turned to the two  children who, though looking strong and proud a moment ago, immediately  shrank back behind Serena under the stares of so many unknown faces.

But Serena only smiled, her heart light and giddy from watching Zoicite  and Amy’s reunion. “Meet Hansel and Gretel,” she said, coaxing them  out from behind her legs.

The children were spitting images of each other, both with large green  eyes, soot-covered faces, and shaggy blonde hair, only Gretel’s was  worn up in a handkerchief while Hansel’s fell messily around his ears.  They were both plump and healthy-looking, but dressed in the ragged  clothes of beggar children.

“Can’t leave ‘em here, can we?” asked Qualakig gruffly, but as  Gretel’s large doe eyes met his, he frowned uncomfortably and shuffled  his feet. “A’right, we can bring ‘em to Whitey.”

“She does ‘ave a thing for lit’le people,” added Gralogwid with a  toothy grin and the dwarfs chuckled to themselves. Hansel and Gretel  exchanged small, quiet smiles and wrapped their arms around Serena’s  legs.

“Good,” she said. “That’s settled. Now let’s get this show on the  road before this gingerbread starts growing mold!”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“We’re turning into a regular caravan, aren’t we?” Endymion joked  as he lifted Hansel onto his horse before climbing up behind the boy.

Serena, now sharing a horse with Andrew, laughed amusedly and glanced  behind her, watching as Jadeite assisted Gretel into his saddle and Amy  and Zoicite got comfortable on their own mount. “We should have  brought more horses.”

“Ah, the wonder of having wings,” Hota teased, patiently waiting on a  tree limb while the group sorted out riding arrangements.

“More like the wonder of being six inches tall,” said Andrew. “You  know you’re going to end up on my shoulder anyway.”

She shrugged noncommittally.

“Everyone set?” Endymion interrupted, surveying the group and  noticing for the first time the camaraderie that was evident in how  they talked and acted toward each other. In less than a day it seemed  as though this small (but ever-growing) group had gained more trust in  each other than any hunting party he’d ever been with. He glanced at  Serena, who was leaning toward his own horse, finger-combing Gretel’s  hair out of her face, and he had to bite the inside of his cheek to  keep from smiling at her.

Sure, the expedition had been for Zoicite and Amy, but he knew it was  all because of Serena. Though he still thought she’d been crazy—that  they’d all been crazy—to undergo such a quest, it had turned out all  right in the end. He almost felt guilty for doubting her.

Shaking his head, he gave his horse’s reigns a shake and spurred him  off down the trail. The dwarfs quickly took the lead, meandering  through the forest without looking at all lost. Endymion was surprised  most at the trust he’d developed for the two miniature companions.  Normally in these situations he wanted to be in complete control, but  now he was comfortable letting himself be led toward their new  destination. He didn’t feel tired—if anything the adventure with the  witches had invigorated him—but he did feel content as the forest  leaves crackled beneath the horse’s hooves and the birds sang merrily  in the canopy above.

They traveled through the evening without incident, stopping only once  to devour the leftovers from their picnic. Though enough rations had  been packed to keep the original company satisfied for two days, the  food was dwindling fast with the newcomers. Hansel and Gretel, wanting  anything but sweets, were especially delighted with plain old white  bread and fresh peaches.

Endymion was about to suggest they look for a place to set up camp when  a distant sound caught his ear. The rest of the party heard it shortly  afterwards and they paused their horses long enough to make it out. All  except the two dwarfs, who spurred theirs on faster at the sound.

A moment later, Endymion heard Serena murmur beside him, “Is that  whistling?”

And it was, the whistling of five different tunes with different notes  and tempos, that somehow all combined into a strange and whimsical song  when strung together. The noise boggled Endymion, and yet, all in all,  he found it pleasant, as did the rest of the companions.

Then, the whistling was joined by two more songs, these coming from  their very own dwarfish companions, and instantly Serena knew where, or  who, the whistling was coming from.

She grinned and brought her horse to a steady trot. “It’s the dwarfs! ” she said to herself, laughing. “It’s the seven dwarfs!” The group  followed Serena without question and it wasn’t long before the trail  opened up into a larger dirt path and just around the bend came  marching five short, bearded men carrying mining tools and whistling  merrily as the setting sun turned the forest orange and gold.

They nodded at Serena and her companions as they passed by, never  pausing in their song, and Gralogwid and Qualakig immediately  dismounted their horses and fell into line behind them, looking as  though they’d never been separated in the first place.

“Do you think they know each other?” Jadeite joked, gracefully  climbing off of his horse and taking it by the reigns. The rest of the  party followed suit and soon found themselves whistling their own  versions of the irresistible tune (all except for an irritated-looking  Seiya).

The trek through the woods was lost in the song and it seemed as though  Serena had barely blinked before a blanket of stars had taken over the  twilight sky and a small cottage sat before them with a candle in each  window guiding them home. Serena’s breath caught and she stopped  whistling. The little house exuded an aura of comfort and warmth. The  small candlelight flickering across the yard and flowerboxes seemed to  whisper, “Welcome home.”

The others noticed, too, and their music slowly faded away. Just as the  last note from the dwarf at the front of the line faded away into the  forest, the cottage door swung open and out came a girl.

She was bathed from the light of the house as she stepped barefoot onto  the cobblestone path and looked at the group with her hands on her  hips. Her long hair was blacker than ebony, her skin was white as snow,  and her lips were red as blood. She looked like a forest nymph, dressed  in a simple muslin dress that cinched at the waist with a red ribbon.  Her large eyes were almost as dark as her hair, but Serena thought that  they glittered with as much light as the candles lighting the windows.

Expressionless, her gaze met that of each of the strangers, before  turning with a teasing glance to each of the seven dwarfs in turn.  “Well, boys,” she said, her tone mocking, “it’s one thing to bring  home a poor, blinded prince, but it’s quite another to bring home all  of Aysel Kingdom!”

The dwarf at the front of the line grinned, showing a gap where one  tooth was missing, and jerked a thumb over his shoulder. “Can’t ‘elp  it. They followed us ‘ome!”

The next dwarf hooked his thumbs behind his suspenders. “Can we keep  ‘em?”

Then the girl laughed and stepped aside. “Well they’re here now, aren ’t they? Go get cleaned up, you’re all a wreck. I’ll see if I can  scrounge up some more place settings. It’s nice to have you home,  Gralogwid, Qualakig, we’ve missed you. And Prince Zoicite—” She  paused, her eyes sweeping over the smiling prince, seeing his fingers  intertwined with those of a petite blue-haired girl, and his green eyes  glittering back at her. “My, my, you look a world better than you did  two days ago. Come in and make yourself comfortable, then you can  introduce me to your friends.”

With military precision, the dwarfs marched into the house and straight  to the washroom while Snow White set about searching for more dishes to  use for supper. After she’d had little luck, Serena informed her that  they’d eaten on the road and weren’t very hungry, in which case Snow  White looked much relieved and dished up food only for the five dwarfs  who had been in the mountains all day, and Hansel and Gretel, whose  appetites were typical for growing children.

“Well, then! While they eat, why don’t we go and sit in the den. This  house wasn’t built for so much company, but I hope you’ll find it to  be quite cozy,” she said, ushering them into the next room where a  fire was burning on the hearth.

They soon found places to sit, most of the companions collapsing  tiredly on the bearskin rug in the center of the room, as seven of the  eight chairs were too small to be comfortable anyway, and then Zoicite  introduced each of his companions to Snow White, smiling fondly when he  came to Amy and proudly announcing, “And this is Amy, my fiancé.”

Amy smiled at him, her cheeks turning pink in the glow from the fire.

“And everyone, I’m pleased to introduce you to Snow White. She took  me in and bandaged my eyes when I was lost and helpless.”

Snow White was grinning from ear to ear. “Please, call me Raye. ‘Snow  White’ is a name I’ve tried to leave behind in another life, with  little success it seems.” She tilted her head curiously at Zoicite,  before adding, “And bandages I can do easily enough, but this,” she  said with a wave of her hand, “I could never. What’s happened since I  last saw you? I thought for sure you’d never see again!”

Zoicite related the whole story, from the time that he and his two  dwarfish companions had set out for Aysel Castle, to discovering that  the magic tower had disappeared, to the small bird who led them to the  house of gingerbread, through the battle with the two witches, to how  he had conquered Zoe and broken the curse, turning Amy and the others  back into humans, and finally how Amy’s tears had healed his eyesight.

“Magic tears,” breathed Raye when he’d finished, smiling at Zoicite ’s shy fiancé, “how miraculous!”

Amy shook her head. “I’m afraid I don’t know how or what I did, and  I’m sure I’ll never be able to do it again.”

“Ah, but of course,” Andrew said. “It was not magic tears that  healed Master Zoicite, but rather the magic of her love for him. Such  things are hardly unheard of in this land of ours.”

“Very true,” Hota agreed from Seiya’s shoulder. “Magic works its  way into all sorts of unbelievable situations. If you ask me, the whole  sequence of events was rather predictable.”

Serena wanted both to scowl and laugh. Predictable or not, it certainly  hadn’t been easy. But at that moment, she was feeling quite successful  as Aysel’s Chosen One.

“Well, I’m glad everything has worked out for you, and I wish you  many long years of a happy marriage,” Raye said, standing up to stoke  the fire. “When will the wedding take place?”

“As soon as possible. We’ll start out at dawn tomorrow and should  reach the castle by early afternoon. I’m sure preparations can be made  in order for us to have the wedding the following day.”

“The following day!” exclaimed Raye. “That’s a bit fast, isn’t it? ”

“We see no point in waiting. We discussed it on the way here. Of  course, we’ll have to obtain the necessary blessings and send out  invitations, but the wonderful thing about Aysel is that people are  always ready for a party. They’ll take any reason to celebrate.”

“Sounds like a lovely place to live,” Raye said, but her little smile  secretly confessed that she was perfectly content in her small,  secluded cottage with her seven close companions.

“Raye,” said Amy in her quiet voice, standing up with her fingers  clasped as Raye leaned the fire stoker against the wall. “There was  something else Zoicite and I talked about during our journey. We would  like to offer you and all of your friends an informal invitation to the  wedding. If the dwarfs hadn’t found Zoicite and if you hadn’t  welcomed and healed him, he may have perished in the wilderness and  this time for celebration would have instead been a time for mourning.  We would be honored if you would join us.”

Raye’s surprised look slowly turned to an apologetic smile, but  continued, “And while I know that everything is sudden and that we don ’t know each other well at all, I’d also like to ask you to be a  bridesmaid.”

“A bridesmaid?” Raye asked with an astonished laughed.

“It may sound strange, but the faces in this house are the only faces  I’ve ever known in my entire life. I feel a bond with you all and hope  that we may become close friends as the years go by. This is my way of  offering you my gratitude and friendship.” She turned to Serena, who  was watching her with wide, excited eyes. “And Serena, I was hoping  you would be my second maid. Your bravery and wisdom have also played  an important part in this happy ending.”

Serena could see Endymion rolling his eyes beside her, but she ignored  him and beamed at Amy “Of course! I’d be delighted!”

Amy turned back to Raye, who was pursing her lips as if thinking it  over, but her glowing eyes admitted that her decision had already been  reached. Finally, she laughed and shrugged. “Oh, what can be the harm?  I will only be gone a few days. The dwarfs can get along without me for  such a short time.”

“Aw, don’t be goin’ thinkin’ like that, Paper White,” Gralogwid  snorted, picking a pipe up from one of the tables and filling it with  dried leaves. “We’ve gotten too attached to you now, and I don’  think we could survive a single day without ya.”

“Now, don’t say—”

“So, as I can see your mind is made up, we’ll just have to come  along, too.”

“The mountains aren’t goin’ anywhere, are they?” Qualakig added. “ An’ didn’t ya hear Bluebell over there? She’s offered you and all  your friends an informal invitation.”

“An’ it’s not every day we get to go to a royal weddin’.”

Amy clapped her hands joyfully. “It’s settled then!”

Endymion cleared his throat. “We do have a small dilemma concerning  transportation, though. We only have seven horses, and that would  make...eighteen of us.”

“Not sure Butterfly counts, over there,” Qualakig said, poking a fat  finger at Hota’s belly.

She squirmed with irritation and flew away to sit peacefully on Seiya’ s shoulder, who was watching the conversation with eminent boredom.

“Fine, seventeen. Our odds are hardly better.”

“Ah, don’ worry about that,” said Gralogwid with a wave of his pipe.  “We’ll walk. Us dwarfs prefer to ‘ave our feet firmly on the ground  anyway.”

“Here, here,” came a chorus of gruff voices as the other five dwarfs  appeared in the doorway, along with the children who were watching  excitedly. Obviously the dwarfs had kept them entertained throughout  the meal. They all shuffled in and made themselves comfortable.

“Ah, how polite of you to join us,” Raye said sarcastically. “I’d  like to introduce Gralogwid and Qualakig’s brothers: Fiebrob, Wilopin,  Boreetok, Vlonterp, and Kepple. Don’t worry, no one expects you to  remember any of those names.”

After the rest of the group had been introduced to the dwarfs (who  seemed to remember everyone’s names with surprising accuracy), Zoicite  returned the conversation to their previous dilemma by offering to  share his horse with Amy again on the trek back to the castle.

“And I don’t mind riding with Gretel,” said Jadeite as the small  girl climbed up into his lap. Raye looked at him, a little surprised— it was the first time he’d spoken all evening and she’d hardly  noticed him in the swarm of all the new names and faces, but as he  wrapped his arms around the little girl and smiled warmly, Raye couldn ’t help but grin back.

“And would Master Hansel like to ride with me?” she asked  impulsively, smiling at Hansel as he sat down between two of his new  dwarfish friends. But when he looked up at her, his goofy grin was ear  to ear.

“Sure would, Miss.”

“There, that’s settled then. But first, warm baths all around!”

Chapter 15: A Comb in the Well
Snow White had no suspicion and let the old woman do
as she pleased. But hardly had she put the comb in her hair than
the poison in it took effect, and the girl fell down senseless. from  Snow White

The dwarfs’ cottage was filled with music and laughter as Endymion  slipped out of the front door in search for one companion who had  disappeared. He found Serena sitting on a large rock near the forest  edge, wrapped up in a giant quilt, her long blonde hair still damp from  the bath. The night was warm and the moon coated the world in silver,  but a single candle burning beside the girl surrounded her in an orange  halo. She was analyzing her hand with a deep frown, leaning toward the  flame with her brow drawn in concentration.

Endymion stepped on a branch to alert her of his approach and she  glanced up at him. She smiled distractedly.

“What are you doing out here all by yourself?”

“Just enjoying the evening,” she mumbled, then looked back down at  her hand, obviously frustrated. “And trying to get this blasted  splinter out of my hand. I got it when I was trying to get Hansel and  Gretel out of that house. They were hidden in this tiny room underneath  the floorboards, but the stupid door didn’t have a handle or hinges or  anything. It’s one of those really bad splinters, too, up underneath  my nail. It’s been driving me crazy all day, and I can’t get it out. ”

Joining her on the stone, Endymion held out his hand. “Let me see.”

“No, I got it.”

“No you don’t. It could get infected. Let me see.”

With a sigh, Serena gave him her hand and he held it toward the light  from the candle, analyzing the wound for a second. “Ah, no problem,”  he said with a quirk of his lips and reached for a dagger in his belt.

Serena yanked her hand away. “What’s that for?”

Laughing, Endymion pulled the hand back. “What do you think it’s for?  Hold still. I’m not going to hurt you.”

She watched with wide eyes as he neared the tip of the blade toward her  finger, gasping as the point gently prodded the sensitive skin around  the splinter.

She yelped as a drop of blood formed on her finger. “Hey! What about  not hurting me?”

Endymion rolled his eyes and rubbed the blood away with his thumb,  taking the splinter away with it. “There, all better. Was that really  so bad?”

Serena suspiciously held her hand up to her face. It did feel better.  “I guess not. Thanks,” she muttered.

He shrugged and tore off a square from his cloak, before pulling her  hand back and quickly wrapping the makeshift bandage around it.

Serena smiled at the concentration in his deep blue eyes that reflected  the candle’s tiny flame. When he released her fingers, she self- consciously pulled her quilt tighter around her shoulders and watched  as the prince latched his knife back on his belt. He raised his eyes to  stare silently at the moon, which was little more than half-full.

“I’d forgotten about your doctor status. That’s the second time you ’ve helped heal me.”

He shifted uncomfortably, his eyes glued to the silver moon. “Well,  someone has to do it. And somehow I don’t think those dwarfs would be  so dexterous with a knife.”

She laughed, cringing at the thought.

“Those two kids you found are something else, aren’t they?”

She smiled and turned away. “Sure are. One would think that with all  they’ve been through, they’d be slow to trust anyone, but they seem  to have warmed up to everyone without question. Especially the dwarfs. ”

“And Jadeite. I didn’t even realize he liked kids, but I think he’s  fallen in love with that little girl.”

Serena nodded, remembering how Gretel had gone straight to the blonde- haired prince and crawled into his lap as if it was her rightful  throne.

“You know,” Endymion said, his voice distant, “if you hadn’t wanted  to follow that bird, we never would have found them. And we wouldn’t  have killed the witches or broken Amy’s curse or healed Zoicite’s  eyes.” He looked as if there was more he wanted to say, but he  hesitated and fell silent.

Serena began finger-combing her hair, not sure if Endymion was giving  her a compliment.

“But we could have all died, or been ravens forever,” he added, more  to himself than Serena. She risked a glance at his face and his  expression looked torn between two opposing ideas—half bathed in  moonlight, the other in the warmth from the candle. Then he shook his  head as if ridding himself of plaguing thoughts.

“Tell me about your land.”

“My land?”

His lips quirked up and he looked at her from the corner of his eye. “ Yes, Serena from far, far away. I must admit, I—” He paused again,  awkwardly searching for words. Finally, he continued, “I’m peculiarly  curious about you, Serena. I don’t understand half the things you do  and it seems that we disagree on almost everything, and yet everything  so far has worked out for you. Like you have a kind fairy godmother  watching over all you do.” He laughed, shaking his head. “I get the  impression that you’re just kind of floundering around sometimes, and  yet you never seem surprised when things go your way, or turn out  exactly how you said they would. And you dress differently and you talk  differently and… you don’t act anything like any girl I’ve ever met. ” He trailed off as Serena felt a blush rising to her face and began  to play with the makeshift bandage on her finger.

“Maybe I’m just lucky,” she whispered, pursing her lips when  Endymion turned his thoughtful gaze on hers.

“Tell me about your land,” he repeated.

She shrugged. “I don’t know that there’s much to tell. Your land is  much more magical than mine.”

“Do all of the girls feel free to hug their reigning princes upon  their first meeting?” he asked teasingly, chuckling as her face  flushed.

“I wouldn’t really know,” she said awkwardly. “We don’t have  reigning princes where I come from.”

“Really?” he asked, slightly surprised. “Then who rules?”

“Oh, we have an emperor,” she said with a wave of her hand, “but  mostly the government is run by prime ministers and cabinet officials— you know, boring stuff like that. Honestly, I’m not entirely up-to- date. I try to avoid politics like the plague.” She laughed nervously.

He blinked uncertainly, but shrugged it off. “Then tell me about  yourself.”

“What do you want to know?”

“Anything. Everything.” He smirked briefly, but the look quickly  dissolved and he found himself staring into the candle’s flame.

“Well, I go to school. Um… I like literature, but hate history. I  read a lot. I love milkshakes and ice cream and cheeseburgers, but can ’t stand broccoli. I live with my mom in your average suburban  neighborhood.”

“What about your dad?”

“I never met him. He left us right after I was born.”

Endymion lowered his eyes, surprised, but forced away the budding  sympathy. “What’s your mother like?”

Serena pursed her lips and thought of words to describe her mother. She  conjured up the memory of her mom that she thought of most, the memory  that depicted her mother as she was deep down on the inside—the part  of her she never tried to show anybody, even her own daughter. It had  been an early spring morning, when the air was still chilled but tulips  were breaking their heads above the dirt. Serena was only four or five  years old and she’d wandered into her mother’s bedroom to find her  sitting at her vanity in a plain cotton night robe, smiling sadly at  her reflection. Around her neck was a large diamond necklace—Serena  was sure it was the most valuable thing in their house, and she’d  never seen it before, or since. Her mother had pulled Serena up onto  her lap and taken off the necklace, clasping it over Serena’s small  collarbone. It was heavy, but warm from her mother’s skin, and it was  filled with a hundred new sparkles each time Serena turned her head.  Her mother told her that someday the necklace would b e hers. And  though she didn’t say it, Serena knew that it had come from her father  before he’d left. The thought did not occur to her until many years  later that her father must have been very wealthy, and Serena was  sometimes bitter that the only valuable thing he’d left them had been  that necklace while her mother worked barely above minimum wage to  raise her.

“Serena?”

Startled, she turned to see Endymion’s blue eyes on her, his brows  furrowed with worry.

“I’m sorry…” she trailed off, then cleared her throat and shook the  image away. Recalling his question, she said, “My mother is… strong.  She raised me all on her own, working too many hours for too little  money, but never once complaining. And she always came home with a  smile and found the time to cook dinner and read me stories.” She  sighed, squinting up at the moon. “But sometimes I think she’s very  sad. She’s never told me, but I can see it in her face when she’s  trying too hard to be happy. I don’t think she ever stopped loving my  dad. She’s never tried to meet anyone new.” Forcing a smile, she  added, “And it would be easy for her to meet someone new. She’s  beautiful and charming and kind to everyone.”

“Well of course she is,” muttered Endymion. “She made you, didn’t  she?”

Serena rolled her eyes and tried not to feel flattered.

“What about your friends? Do you miss them?”

“I don’t have a whole lot of friends,” she answered, crinkling her  nose. “I mean, I do at school, but Melvin’s the only person I spend a  lot of time with.”

“And Melvin is your... lover?” Endymion asked, toying with the rough  edge of his severed cloak.

Gagging, Serena furiously shook her head. “Oh, no, no, no. We’re just  friends. We live right next door to each other, and he’s a great guy  and all, but he’s also kind of... well... weird.”

Endymion beamed at her and quirked an eyebrow. “And you’re not weird? ”

“Trust me, I’m nowhere near Melvin’s level of supreme weirdness. He  collects butterflies and moths, for example. And he knows everything  about everyone. I swear, if I didn’t know better, I’d think he was a  spy or something. But he makes me laugh and helps me study and gets me  through the school week.”

Endymion nodded, peering at her from the corner of his eye. “And what  about this other fellow you mentioned before. This... Darien, was his  name?”

Serena’s eyes widened and she felt a blush cover her cheeks. “Oh,  him. Yeah... we’re not really friends.”

“Really? That surprises me. You seemed awfully familiar when you  mistook me for him.”

“I was just excited about seeing a familiar face,” she muttered with  an uncomfortable shrug.

“Uh-huh. So... you wouldn’t say that you were attracted to him?”

She laughed at the irony and refused to answer, which told the answer  better than words could have. Endymion felt a proud swelling in his  chest.

“So what’s he like?”

She looked at Endymion with an expression he didn’t recognize. “I  barely know him. In fact, almost everything I do know about him I  learned from Melvin, and lord only knows where he gets his information.  But Darien Shields... well, I know he likes the Sunday comics and  peanut butter on his pancakes and gets really good grades and is always  polite to everyone, even geeks like Melvin, and he’s... well, he’s a  lot like you. From what I can tell.”

“I thought you’d decided we weren’t so similar after all. Something  about him being brave and me being a coward…”

Serena buried her cold fingers in her blanket. “I was angry, and  frustrated. I didn’t really mean that.”

“Yes you did. And you were probably right. When it comes to hunting  and fighting I’m as brave as they come but when it comes to love... or  affection, I... I guess I can be a bit of a coward.”

“You have no reason to be,” Serena whispered. “Lots of girls would  be thrilled for you to be interested in them. Actually, despite what I  said, I think that might be another thing you and Darien do have in  common. You see, he’s by far the most popular guy at my school, but I  don’t think he dates much.”

“What else do we have in common?” Endymion asked, the question  equally curious and teasing, but Serena looked up with an affectionate  expression that made his palms sweaty.

“Oh, let me think... ah! You both have dimples right here!” Reaching  forward, she poked the prince in the cheek and he bitterly looked away,  rubbing harshly at his face as if to wash the dimple away. She giggled  happily, kicking her feet at Endymion’s flustered and not-quite-angry  look.

There was a long moment as Endymion stopped rubbing at his cheek and  Serena stopped laughing and both of them listened to the sounds of the  forest. The crickets and frogs in the distance had begun chirping as  the moon rose above the treetops, and an occasional breeze shook the  branches around them. “And you loved him,” Endymion finally murmured.

Serena flushed, her posture straightening. “Oh, no! How could I? I’ve  never even talked to him.”

Endymion raised an eyebrow, forcing her to quickly divert her gaze.

“Well, it’s true.”

He shrugged. “Well, it didn’t hurt to hope.” Sighing, he stood and  began to walk back toward the cottage.

“Hope? Hope what?”

“Well,” he drawled, turning back and leaning down to her, “you see,  if you loved him, and I’m exactly like him, then it would logically  follow that . . .” His hands had planted themselves on either side of  the stone, trapping her between his arms, as his eyes dug into her own,  his lips quirked in that deliciously teasing grin that she knew so  well.

“I . . . well . . . er . . .” She stuttered, her heart pounding  against her chest. His breath danced against her cheek, his arms  brushed along her elbows, her eyes drifted close.

“But since you’re not in love with him,” Endymion said, so loudly  that she jumped in surprise, and then he had gotten up and was laughing  and walking away in the tall grass and shadows. As he rounded the  corner of the house and disappeared from view, Serena wrapped her arms  protectively around her knees and hid her head behind her legs, trying  to calm the furious twirling in her stomach.

“You’re both just big teases,” she whispered to herself. “And you  both make me feel the same way.” She sat there until the blush in her  cheeks had gone away and a chilly breeze was sending goose bumps racing  down her arms before she stood to go back into the cabin, planning on  ignoring Endymion until the morning came. Her feelings seemed less  transparent in the sunlight. Her feet settled comfortingly into the  dewy, cold grass, but she’d barely taken half a dozen steps before  something flickering between the trees caught her eye.

She paused, seeing silver rays of light dancing along some distant  trees—like moonlight reflected from a shallow pool. She tiptoed closer  with straining eyes, feeling the grass slowly give way to ferns and  weeds and, not long after that, swampy, sticky mud. It kind of felt  good squishing between her toes, but the feeling was ruined knowing  that now she’d have to wash them again. But the dancing light wasn’t  far off and she continued, listening to her own footsteps below her and  the quiet, almost creepy night sounds of the forest. An owl, a bat, a  toad, a cricket—but it was all probably her imagination.

Something slithered beneath her foot and Serena yelped and jumped. She  looked down and was startled at how dark the forest had become. She  couldn’t see her feet and it looked as though she was standing in a  pool of darkness. She wiggled her toes, grateful for the mud sliming  between them, grounding them, and glanced back over her shoulder. She  hadn’t gone far at all. The lights from the cottage could still be  seen, golden and warm. She took a few deep breaths to calm her thudding  heart, then slowly looked ahead again. The pale light washing languidly  over the leaves and trunks was so close that it almost touched her, and  she urged herself forward, humming a little in hopes of dispelling the  dark, unfamiliar noises emerging from the foliage.

Her foot squelched when she pulled it from the mud and she grimaced  before inching it forward, feeling with her toes what she could not  see, and a few steps later she let out a relieved sigh as she  recognized the touch of moss. Then she was emerging from the shadows  and into a little clearing, faintly lit with a moonlike shine. It was  not the moon, though, that cast the silver tendrils, but rather a stone  well just out of arm’s reach. The tranquil sounds of water filled the  glen, and Serena’s momentary fear faded into serenity as she stepped  to the base of the well and put her hands into the thick ivy that was  growing up and over the top.

Leaning forward, she ignored her hair as it slipped over her shoulders  and fell to the water’s surface. Its golden sheen was emphasized by  the silver outline around it and it floated and rocked along with the  current.

Serena’s eyes fluttered. She licked her lips, and looked.

Her own blue eyes looked back at her, curious and awed. At first, the  reflection was all she could make out in the pool, but slowly, she  strained her eyes to look beyond, to search the depths for something  else kept beneath the surface. To see the bottom of the well or a coin  or a bucket or anything that might be found there.

The shimmering, mesmerizing waves of silver gradually settled into a  gentle rippling pattern, beginning at the center of the well and moving  outward—growing and expanding and finally disappearing into their  stone boundaries, and between them Serena began to see something. A  room.

She blinked dazedly and squinted at the almost-harsh sunlight streaming  in through the room’s only window. It was a pretty room, similar to  her quarters in Aysel Castle, but even richer and warmer in appearance.  At first the room was only window and curtains and walls and carpet,  all with a distinct sense of welcoming—like living walls designed to  love and protect—but gradually a vanity faded into the image, and the  hazy figure of a girl before it. She was seated facing a little mirror  and dressed all in white and lace and humming a strangely familiar  song.

The song moved up from Serena’s chest and she hummed along to it,  filling the little glen with quiet music.

The girl lifted her arms and took down the hair that had been clipped  up and then took a comb and began stroking it through the long locks.  Her reflection in the vanity mirror was smiling a little—though only  the lips could be seen. Then, there was a woman behind her, tall and  willowy, but the pool’s reflection still would not give up any  details. She moved behind the girl like a shadow and spoke in a  soothing voice, “Silly girl, a bride does not comb her own hair.”

The woman took the comb from the girl’s hand and began to stroke her  fingers through the thick, colorless waves, and Serena felt their  tingling presence from the top of her head to the base of her spine and  her lips curled, like the lips in the girl’s mirror.

“You’ll make a very pretty princess,” the woman mused, the words  carrying the lilt of summer chimes. “This hair of yours—not a snag in  it.” To prove her words, she lifted the comb to the girl’s hairline,  its sharp little teeth caressing her scalp, and slowly pulled it back  through the silky mane. She repeated the stroke to each side of the  girl’s head and Serena began to feel sleepy under the caresses and she  yawned and the woman raised the comb, brazing her ear, past her temple …

Serena gasped, feeling the sudden sting of five pin-like teeth dig into  the top of her scalp, and she watched as the girl fell off her chair  and collapsed to the embracing carpet. Dropping the comb, the woman  turned and skulked away—a shadow with curled crimson lips and shining  crimson eyes.

The sun disappeared outside the window and the world turned black and  Serena slumped breathlessly against the stone well.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The world was heavy when Serena began to regain consciousness. She  first sensed a pulsing from her scalp, right behind her ear, making her  head and neck and shoulders ache horribly. Then there was a tingling  behind her eyes and the sensation of a hundred stones pressing down on  her limbs. She groaned. Something wet and cool slid onto her tongue.  She tried to choke it down but found her throat clogged and scratchy  and coughed it back up. Then her shoulders were being lifted—some of  the imaginary stones rolling off her, though her arms were too tired to  move. She tried to twitch her fingers and succeeded. She tried to open  her eyes.

A glaring light invaded her dark haven and she shut them again,  suddenly gasping for breath. Had she been breathing before?

Muffled, faraway sounds began to reach her. Sounds that frantically  sought out her ears and collided with her eardrums and banged against  that thudding in the back of her head and she tried to pull away from  the sounds, but something was holding her shoulders firmly in place. Or  maybe she just didn’t have the energy to move against them. The sounds  continued, meshing into a jumble of words, then churning into familiar  voices, but the dizzying effects of her pulsing headache made her  forget where she knew them from, and she soon lost interest in trying.  She wanted to bury her head beneath a sand dune and tune out all noise  forever. Scrunching up her face, she mildly thought that if she could  move her arms she could cover her ears, but they still felt buried  beneath some impossible weight.

The cool, wet thing was on her tongue again and this time altogether  refreshing and her throat opened to it and she drank greedily until it  stopped and by that time the tingling behind her eyes had almost  disappeared and the thumping behind her ear had dulled to a slight  annoyance. She dared to open her eyes again.

The light that had so blinded her before turned out to be nothing more  than an oil lamp a few feet away, flickering orange against the dark  trees. Her eyes found the hand holding it and traced it along the arm  and the shoulder and up into the face of a little man with a wiry  orange beard and a green cap. Serena squinted at the man and let her  head fall to one shoulder, thinking that he didn’t seem quite like he  belonged in such a boring place as Crossroads.

“Serena. Serena, can you hear me?” The voices that had peeved her so  many minutes ago were clearer now and she drew her eyes away from the  dwarf and turned toward the sound of her name and, if her heart hadn’t  felt as though it was pumping molasses, she was sure she would have  gasped. Instead, she felt her lips curl up.

“Darien?” she mouthed more than spoke, and saw his brow furrow in  surprise, then his pretty blue eyes darken underneath the long lashes.  His lips twitched, drawing her attention to them, and she had the  lovely thought that maybe he’d just kissed her awake. If she could  have giggled, she might have, except for she didn’t feel as though she ’d just been kissed, and she’d always thought that such a thing would  leave a lingering imprint on one’s lips—like dream kisses did.  Besides, this wasn’t a fairy tale.

Serena’s eyes widened and she discovered a gasp was possible after  all.

Fairy Tale.

Dwarfs.

Endymion.

“I…” she stuttered, attempting to lift her arms to Endymion’s  shoulders or put them in the grass and support herself or…

“Serena, breathe,” Endymion gently commanded, tightening his hold  around her shoulders. “Just relax.”

“The poison’s startin’ to wear off,” a gruff voice sounded behind  the prince and Serena recognized Gralogwid, with his long black hair,  then she glanced to Kepple, holding the lantern, and recognized him as  well.

“Poison,” she breathed, instinctively licking her lips.

“You’re going to be okay,” Endymion assured her, scooping her into  his arms. “Come on, let’s get her to a bed.”

The walk back to the cottage was full of brambles reaching for Serena’ s arms and legs and the squishing sounds of footsteps in mud and the  golden light of the lantern outlining their path and the image in  Serena’s head of the slender woman languidly brushing the girl’s hair  until she collapsed suddenly to the floor. When her arms found strength  again, she slowly reached one up and felt her scalp, first noticing  that the buns had been taken out and that most of her hair was still  dripping from the pool water and streaked with mud where she had  fallen. But then she ran her fingers along the sore spot behind her  ears and felt something warm and sticky.

“Lookin’ for this?”

Peering past Endymion’s shoulder, she saw Gralogwid holding up a  silver hair comb with inlaid pearls and emeralds and bits of dried  blood clinging to its needlelike teeth.

“How?” she whispered.

“We’ll figure this out later,” Endymion murmured. “First, you need  to rest.”

“I don’t want to rest. I want to know what happened to me. Someone  tried to kill me!”

“I don’t think tha’s true,” said Kepple from ahead. “I think you  were jus’ in the wrong place at the wrong time.”

Serena was determined to stay awake until Kepple explained what he  meant by that, but by the time they’d gotten to the cottage and Raye  had fixed her a cup of warm cider and she’d been tucked beneath a  quilt with a worried little Gretel at her side, sleep seemed to be the  only reasonable option.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The morning was filled with murmurs and shuffling sounds before it was  filled with light. Serena opened her eyes, feeling worlds better than  she had the night before, and discovered a glass of water at her  bedside. Gently moving Gretel’s head off her shoulder, she sat up and  drank the water and caught Endymion’s eye, who was sitting in the next  room with Snow White, all seven dwarfs, and Hota. Looking around, she  saw that Amy was still curled up in another bed and Hansel was sprawled  on a makeshift cot to her side.

Standing, Serena made her way to the larger living room where the  others sat and saw Andrew, Seiya, Zoicite, and Jadeite through the  window, slinging packs onto the horses.

“You should still be sleeping,” Endymion reprimanded her as she  joined them around the fireplace.

“How do you feel?” Raye appeared the most worried of anyone in the  room, her violet eyes watching Serena’s face with mute apprehension.

“Better. I just… want to know what happened.” She felt her head,  noting that her hair had been cleaned and the blood wiped off. Five  small scabs had formed where the comb had punctured her.

The dwarfs grunted and shuffled their feet and looked at each other and  at Raye, whose haunted gaze had moved down to the low-burning embers in  the fireplace, remnants from the previous evening. Serena wondered if  any of them had slept.

“You… were attacked,” Raye said, choosing her words carefully.

“Well I figured that much. But by who? And why and… and how?”

“This is speculation, of course,” Raye answered, “but we believe,  the dwarfs and I, that… that it was my…” She cleared her throat,  tightening her hands in her lap. “…my stepmother.”

Later, Serena would chastise herself for being surprised. When the  words had settled in, becoming more and more obvious as Serena dwelt on  them, she murmured, “But why would your stepmother want to attack me? ”

“It wasn’ you she was aimin’ for,” Vlonterp interjected, tugging on  an earlobe.

Serena blinked, then looked at serene-looking Snow White, then drawled  understandingly, “Oh… of course. But why did she think I was you?”

Raye’s eyes quickly rose to her and flashed, her expression taken  aback. She opened her mouth to speak, before closing it and furrowing  her brow in mute suspicion. Finally, she asked, “What do you mean ‘of  course’?”

Noticing that Endymion was also watching her carefully, Serena licked  her lips and shrugged. “Well, since you’re the only girl living here … she obviously… I mean, who would use a pretty comb like that to  kill a dwarf?”

One of the dwarfs snorted his agreement, seeing the logic, and Raye let  her speculative face fall. “Yes, well, she was after me. And I think,  when she saw you, it was so dark and she was trying to look through  that murky water and everything, that she must have just seen that it  was a girl and assumed…”

“How did she do it? What does the well have to do with anything?”

Raye squirmed uncomfortably, her eyes distant. “She has a magic  mirror.” From the corner of her eye, Serena noticed Endymion sit up  straighter with surprise. Raye explained, “It can be used for many  things, one of which is to act as a portal to other mirrors. Any mirror  in the world. And water, especially dark water, can make for a very  good mirror. She must have been looking through the well when you  looked into it.”

“And the comb?”

Raye shook her head and looked down, wringing her hands. “She has… an  obsession with poison. That comb had poison in its teeth.”

“If master Endowed over there hadn’ found you, you would ‘ave been  dead in an hour, tops.”

Endymion’s eyebrows shot up at yet another of the dwarfs’ bestowed  nicknames, but then he turned away. “She shouldn’t have gone off by  herself like that,” he muttered. Serena found it hard to be angry at  his indirect scolding. After all, she now admonished that he was  probably right.

“Thanks,” she whispered, but the prince didn’t turn back, so she  looked at Raye again. “But that doesn’t explain how the comb got into  my hair. If she was only looking through the mirror… where did it come  from?”

Raye shook her head. “I don’t know. My stepmother has powers far  beyond anything I can explain.” With a sigh, she stood up and kicked  at the ashes on the hearth. “You’re lucky to be alive, Lady Serena.  And now, we have to wake the others and get out of here as quickly as  possible. It won’t be long before the queen realizes that she didn’t  kill me as she believes. I don’t know how she found out where I am,  but it isn’t safe here any longer.”

“The queen?” Serena asked as Raye disappeared into the tiny kitchen.

“Queen Beryl of Cashlin,” answered Endymion. “We talked about her  once before. Don’t you remember?” He paused, quirking an eyebrow at  Serena, but she only stared back at him in confusion. “Queen Beryl is  the same witch who put the sleeping curse on Princess Briar Rose.”

Chapter 16: In the Kitchen
When she rose up and the king's son looked at her face
he recognized the beautiful maiden who had danced with
him and cried, "That is the true bride."
from Cinderella

“Fiebrob, could you double-check that the fire was put out? Vlonterp,  are all the windows shut? I’d hate to come back and find that a family  of raccoons has moved in. Kepple, are you sure you grabbed those extra  bandages from the cupboard?”

“Aye, Snow Queen, the fire an’ the windows an’ the bandages are all  taken care of. Would you relax? You’re startin’ to make us nervous.”

“An’ no one likes a nervous dwarf. We get all rowdy an’ start  swingin’ axes aroun’. It isn’t a pretty sight,” Qualakig said this  with a wink at Gretel who was perched up on Jadeite’s horse.

“A bit paranoid, isn’t she?” Jadeite joked.

Qualakig snorted and rolled his eyes. “You should see her when we’re  late comin’ back from the mines. I swear she’d send a search party if  she ‘ad one.”

“Qualakig! How long ago did I tell you to straighten out your bed? You  don’t want to come back and find it infested with fleas, do you?”

The dwarf sighed. “Right away, Snow Cone,” he breathed and trumped  back to the house.

“Don’ listen to ‘im,” said Gralogwid. “Our lit’le Snow Angel’s  been through a lot, and the event with Miss Bunhead and the well has  left ‘er a lit’le shaken up.”

“What happened to Serena, anyway? I saw Endymion bring her in last  night, all covered in mud, but no one seems to want to talk about  anything.”

“She’s okay now,” Gralogwid said with a little sigh, “But you’re  gonna ‘ave to find someone else to give you details. I jus’ don’  feel it’s my place.” He turned and walked toward the horses, checking  on saddles and stirrups.

Jadeite looked back at the ebony-haired girl, who was scanning the yard  nervously, counting invisible tasks off on her fingers, when Hansel  came up and seized her hand. Raye gasped and looked down at his chubby,  freckled face, and slowly smiled back, ruffling his hair with her free  hand. Then she noticed Jadeite standing before her, a crooked smile on  his lips.

“What?” she snapped.

He chuckled and backed away with his hands up in surrender. “I didn’t  say anything.” He paused, allowing her time to blush or at least look  apologetic, but she did neither, only went back to scanning the yard  for potential disasters. “May I help you onto your steed, mi’lady?”

Raye raised a slender eyebrow at him, squeezing Hansel’s hand. “Not  just yet.”

“Lady Raye,” Jadeite said, “you’ll only be gone for a few days.  Everything will be fine.”

Pursing her lips together, Raye slowly exhaled. “I guess you’re  right, it’s just hard to leave. Here, could you hand Hansel up to me? ”

“Of course, but—” Jadeite was interrupted as Raye climbed onto her  horse with a grace that surprised him. “Um. Sure.” Raye laughed as  Jadeite hoisted Hansel up onto the horse’s back.

“Comfy?”

They both nodded and Jadeite took a moment to check the stirrups and  bridle as the rest of the group got settled and the dwarfs lined up in  preparation for the long march—which seemed to excite rather than  daunt them.

“Oh! Boreetok, did you check—”

“Three times, Paper White. Off we go!”

The morning’s chaos dissolved as the dwarfs began marching off into  the woods, Gralogwid in the lead. Jadeite leaped onto his horse behind  Gretel and he and Raye formed the rear of the line, with the horses  meandering leisurely down the path. As soon as the journey was  underway, Gralogwid began whistling a tune, and he was soon joined by  the practiced melodies of his brothers, and their music swam around the  company and melded with the songs of the forest and the beat of the  horses’ hooves and the wind and the birdsong and the river in the  distance until the whole world melted into the dwarfs’ tune.

About midday they stopped for lunch, and upon resuming their trek,  Jadeite pulled his horse up beside Raye on the pretense that Hansel and  Gretel could keep each other better company, although both of the  children seemed perfectly content to listen to the whistling and  occasionally attempt to join in with red faces and puckered lips.

After a moment of silence, Raye turned to Jadeite as if she had  suddenly made up her mind about something. “I know you must think my  concerns this morning were unfounded.”

“Not at all, mi’lady. It’s only natural that you’ll want your home  to be as safe and comfortable when you return as it was when you left  it.”

She opened her lips to respond, then seemed to think better of it and  turned her dark violet gaze back to the trail ahead. Then, as the  whistling reached a particularly strong crescendo before falling into a  lull, she said quietly, “It’s the only home I have. And the dwarfs  are the only friends I have. If anything were to happen to them on my  account…” she trailed off and Jadeite had to inch his horse closer to  hers in order to hear the last words.

“Raye, why would anything happen to them on your account?”

She snorted, quite unbecomingly, but Jadeite couldn’t help but smile.  “Just look what happened to Serena, and she didn’t even know…” She  turned and stared at the prince for a long moment, searching his green  eyes and making him profoundly uneasy. Finally she inhaled a deep  breath and turned her eyes down.

Jadeite, thinking he had failed whatever test she was giving him,  reached a gentle hand out to her sleeve. “Raye—”

“I’m being hunted,” she confessed, subconsciously ruffling Hansel’s  hair.

“Hunted?”

She nodded and looked at him again. “I shouldn’t be telling you this.  Up until this morning, the dwarfs were the only ones who knew. I  shouldn’t involve you.”

Jadeite shook his head and reached for her hand. “Tell me anyway. Who  is it? And why? You saved my brother’s life. I would do anything to  help you.”

“I’m not asking for your help. I wish none of this had happened. It’ s just that that’s why I’m so nervous about going anywhere. Our  little cottage has always felt like my only sanctuary, but now I know  even that isn’t true. The outside world feels so dangerous. Everything  seems so dangerous, not just for me, but for everyone associated with  me. I wanted you to understand why leaving is so hard and why it’s so … important for me that we’re prepared and that our home will be as  safe as possible.”

“Of course. Of course you want that, and of course you would be  scared. But, Raye, you’re with some of the best hunters and fighters  in the land, and I know at least one of those guardians,” he gestured  toward the guardians, who were riding near the front of the caravan, “ has some knowledge of magic. You’re safe with us.” When she didn’t  respond, he squeezed her hand.

She looked up and held his gaze, reveling in the sincerity of his  slightly turned-up lips and kind eyes. She turned away and soon so did  he, though his hand did not leave hers. A long time later, she  whispered, “It’s my stepmother.”

He turned back to see Raye smiling ironically, her eyes sad and  unseeing as she stared into the forest.

“Your stepmother?”

She nodded.

“Your stepmother is the one hunting you?”

She nodded again.

“But why?”

She inhaled shakily and turned to him.

“My stepmother is Queen Beryl of Cashlin.”

Jadeite’s stiffened. At first he thought she must be joking, but her  sorrowful expression told him that she was not. Wetting his lips, he  shook his head and stuttered, “I thought your name sounded familiar.  You’re Princess Snow White. Of course.”

“I’m no longer a princess.”

“We were told that you ran away years ago. You were presumed dead.”  He looked up at her. “Surely Queen Beryl thinks you’re dead as well. ”

“If only, but she knows better. And I didn’t run away. I was taken  into the woods to be murdered.”

“Murdered!”

“Yes, but the huntsman decided that he couldn’t and he set me free  instead. To this day I don’t know why.”

“Do you think he went back to the queen?”

“It would have been foolish of him. I thought perhaps he would seek  sanctuary in Aysel, actually. Or perhaps Obelia. But it would have been  suicide to return to Cashlin. My stepmother sees everything.”

“What do you mean?”

She briefly hesitated. “She has one of the magic mirrors.”

Jadeite’s stomach flipped. “One of the magic mirrors?”

“Yes. Something about it, its powers, allows her to see things in this  world that she should not be able to see. I’ve heard a rumor that she  can use other mirrors as portals, or windows… I don’t understand how  it works, but I do know that very few things are out of her grasp.”

“And you think she’s seen you?

“It’s the only explanation. We don’t keep any mirrors in the  cottage, of course, but I must have slipped somehow, somewhere.”

“And that’s how she knows that you aren’t dead.”

“Not just that. She knows where I am, too. She came after Serena, last  night, but she must have thought it was me she was killing.”

“How?”

“Through a well of water back in the woods. Serena found it and looked  into it and… Beryl saw her and made her move. She’s lucky to be  alive.”

Jadeite drew his brow down. “But why does she want to kill you?”

She clenched her jaw and Jadeite noticed tears forming in her eyes that  were quickly blinked away. “I don’t know.” She looked at him again,  her eyes glittering in the sunlight. “You believe me, right?”

“Of course I believe you. I’ve heard a lot about this Queen Beryl and  wouldn’t put much of anything beyond her. In fact, she’s the same  witch who cursed Briar Rose, Endymion’s betrothed, with eternal sleep. ”

“I remember hearing about that, but I was only a baby when it  happened.”

“Raye, so long as you’re in my company, I will do everything in my  power to keep you safe.”

Her lips twitched and he threaded their fingers together. “Do you  believe me?”

“Yes,” she murmured. “But I don’t know why I trust you.” Jadeite  frowned, but she didn’t see the look and continued, “And the dwarfs  trust you and your companions, too, which is even more unusual. Since I ’ve been living with them, they’ve been like overprotective big  brothers to me. They distrust strangers even more than I do, and yet,  here they are. Here we are. It goes against all our instincts. But… I  do trust you. All of you.”

Slowly, Jadeite’s frown melted into a smile and he stroked his thumb  along her knuckles. “We won’t hurt you. We’re your friends, too,  now.”

“Thank you.”

The whistling had reached a steady, lilting tune that brought to mind a  boat floating aimlessly on a calm lake and Jadeite felt content as  autumn leaves fell peacefully around the group and the horse swayed  beneath him in its sauntering walk.

“Did you say that Princess Briar Rose is betrothed to Endymion?”

“Yes. Since the day she was born.” Jadeite glanced over to see a look  of surprise on Raye’s face. He followed her gaze to see Endymion  riding beside Serena, both of them whistling along with the dwarfs.  “Why do you ask?”

Raye shook her head. “I just thought…. Oh, it’s nothing. My  perception skills obviously aren’t as keen as they used to be, but I  suppose being surrounded by seven men will do that to a girl.”

Jadeite chuckled.

“So, then, what’s Serena’s story?”

“Serena?”

“Yes. I mean, I thought…. I was under the impression that her and  Endymion were…”

Jadeite laughed. “Oh, no, no, there’s nothing between them. Actually,  we only met Serena about a week ago. She just showed up at the kingdom  one day, quite miraculously. Actually, she saved my niece’s life.”

“Your niece?”

“Yes, my brother, Malachite, and his wife have a baby girl, Cytherea.  She’s the prettiest baby you can imagine. She has my nose.”

Raye grinned and Jadeite told her the story of Rumpelstiltskin and Mina  spinning straw into gold and how she had to guess his name or else he  would steal away her firstborn child, but, just as the situation was  looking grim, Serena showed up knowing the dwarf’s name and he  literally split himself in half with anger. Raye listened intently as  Jadeite related all of the details.

“How lucky she showed up.”

“Indeed. And since then, everyone’s taken quite a liking to her. Even  Seiya seems to enjoy her company, and he doesn’t enjoy anything.”

Raye laughed.

“But it’s strange that you thought she and Endymion were close,”  Jadeite mused. “Honestly, they haven’t seemed to get along at all  since they met—although they’re being civil right now. It’s odd.  Normally Endymion is at least polite to strangers, especially guests of  the palace, but these two seem to drive each other crazy.”

“I noticed,” Raye said with a secretive smile. “In fact, that’s  exactly why I thought there was something between them to begin with.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“Oh, my babies! You’re home!” Queen Luna cried, running down the  palace steps to greet the procession as they marched in through the  great wooden gate. She paused on the last step, clutching the fabric  over her heart as her eyes met a grinning Zoicite. “Your eyes!”

He dismounted and helped Amy down from the horse before pulling his  mother into a hug. “All better, Mother.”

“How? What happened? And who is this pretty thing?”

Amy shyly lowered her eyes as Zoicite seized her hand. “Mother, meet  Amy. We’re engaged to be married!”

Luna’s jaw dropped. “Oh! Oh my! Well then. Come in, come in, we’ll  have dinner put on right away. And this, who are all these men? Oh, I  recognize you two.”

Gralogwid and Qualakig bowed to the queen and introduced her to their  five brothers.

“And this,” added Jadeite, “is Raye.”

The queen eyed the raven-haired girl curiously, then gestured between  her and Jadeite. “Are you two engaged too?”

Blushes quickly rose on both of their faces and Jadeite shook his head.  “No mother, just Zoicite.”

“Well, you can’t blame a mother for trying. Welcome to our castle,  dear. And who are these two?”

“Hansel and Gretel.”

“Hello Master Hansel and Lady Gretel.” She glanced at Jadeite.  “Where did all these people come from?”

“It’s a long story.”

“I suspect you’ll all have a lot to tell me over dinner. Ah! Lady  Serena! How nice to see you again! Endymion, darling, I trust you’ve  been taking good care of our honored guest.” Endymion shrugged,  glancing at Serena from the corner of his eye before giving his mother  a hug.

“All in all, I think maybe she’s been taking better care of us,” he  said, his eyes twinkling. “But it’s good to be home, Mom.”

“And sooner than expected,” said Malachite as he, Mina, Nephlite, and  King Artemis appeared in the doorway. “I thought you would be gone for  a week! But by the looks of it, you all had a very exciting couple of  days.”

“You won’t believe the half of it,” said Jadeite, then, noticing  that Mina carried a small bundle in her arms, his face lit up. “Ah!  Raye, this is my niece that I was telling you about.” Mina gladly  handed the baby to Raye’s welcoming arms. “Meet Princess Cytherea.”

“Oh, she is lovely. And you’re right, she does have your nose.”

“She does not either,” said Mina, crinkling her own nose with  distaste. “She’s going to be a spitting image of me, you’ll see.”

The crowd began migrating into the castle as the newcomers were  reintroduced to the royal family and they each began relating the  adventures they had gone through since leaving the castle just the  previous morning. As they meandered into a parlor room, Nephlite made  his way to the newly engaged couple and pulled Zoicite into a hug.

“It’s good to see you well again, Zoicite,” he said, then grinned at  Amy. “When he left us he was one of the most miserable creatures you  could imagine, but now he’s positively glowing. I think we have you to  thank for that.”

“The feelings are mutual,” said Amy, taking in her surroundings with  awe.

“And to think that you’re getting married! At least there will be one  wedding this week,” he said with a low laugh.

Zoicite gasped. “Of course, I’ve been so absentminded I completely  forgot about the engagement ball! How was it?”

Nephlite shoved his hands into his pockets. “Well… I’m not engaged.  But that isn’t important right now. Amy, tell me, how do you find the  palace?”

“It’s amazing!” she squealed. “It’s like nothing I’ve ever read  about!”

“Yes, I heard about the… the tower. How horrible.”

“I suppose, but I didn’t know any different at the time. Besides, it  was because of that tower that I met Zoicite, and now the whole world  is open to me.”

“And I plan on showing you all of it,” Zoicite said, squeezing her  fingers.

“Nephlite! Nephlite, play a song for us,” Mina cheered, gesturing at  a grand piano that sat in the corner.

Nephlite chuckled and bowed at Amy and his brother. “It seems I’m  being called away. Welcome to the family, Lady Amy.” Though his lips  were smiling, he had a sad look in his eyes as he turned and approached  the piano. Sitting on the bench, he let his fingers glide soundlessly  over the keys as a hush fell over the room. He started to play a  lilting and peaceful tune, and though he urged his fingers to bring the  tempo to a jolly melody, it always seemed to return to a haunting,  sorrowful song.

Sitting alone in his thoughts and the music, Nephlite tried to convince  himself that the heaviness in his chest was only a ridiculous sense of  envy—after all, he had planned on being married himself, if things had  gone differently. But he could not begrudge his brother’s happiness.  He tried to remind himself how happy he was to have all his family  together in one place, how glad that Zoicite had been healed, how  wonderful it would be to have a new sister-in-law who was sure to be as  delightful as Mina was.

He tried not to feel lonely. He tried to ignore the heartsickness. He  tried to turn away from the vision of Lita’s beautiful face looking so  rejected, from the feel of her calloused fingers, from the honeydew  scent of her hair the night of the ball.

He tried very hard not to think of her, but she was to be found in  every note his fingers formed on the cold keys.

He played until they were called to dinner.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“Lita, I’m putting you in charge of the cakes. They want four  different flavors: chocolate, vanilla, almond, and something fruity,  they said. Any ideas?”

“I could make a fabulous champagne cake with orange-raspberry filling  and strawberry cream cheese frosting, then we could top it with  huckleberries and a drizzle of rich white chocolate.”

The head chef smiled at her apprentice. “I knew you were the right  person for the job. Now get to work! We need enough to serve—oh!”  Gasping, she dropped her spatula and dropped into a low curtsy. “Your  Majesty!” Immediately, the crazy bustle in the kitchen died out as the  staff noticed Nephlite lingering uncomfortably in the doorway. They all  quickly fell into bows and curtsies, except for Lita who was rendered  motionless.

Nephlite stared into her green eyes, ignoring the respects being paid  to him. Finally, Lita inhaled a long, steady breath and stepped away  from the supportive counter. She stood up very tall with her chin held  high before lowering her eyes and dropping into a graceful curtsy.

With a startled cry, Nephlite launched forward and grabbed her upper  arm, lifting her before she could complete the bow.

“Please,” he whispered. “Please don’t.”

“Your Highness,” Lita breathed, avoiding his eyes with her chin still  held high.

“Call me Nephlite.”

“It would be inappropriate for a lowly servant such as myself to take  on such familiar airs with a prince.” Though her tone was polite,  there was an almost undetectable sarcastic bite to it.

Nephlite detected it.

“Lita,” he whispered, his hand trembling on her arm. Goose bumps  crawled up her skin. “May I have a word with you? Please?”

She began to pull away and his hand released her. She backed into the  counter and glanced down at the bowl of batter she’d been mixing.  “Your Highness, I’m afraid that we’re terribly busy and I haven’t  the time to—”

“Of course, we can spare her for a few moments, Your Majesty,” the  head chef interrupted. Nephlite cast her a grateful smile. When he  turned back to Lita she was glaring at her boss, but quickly replaced  the look with one of indifference.

“I suppose,” she muttered, untying her apron.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
As they stepped into the hallway, the kitchen once again burst into  chatter, but this time Lita doubted it had anything to do with food or  weddings. Her heart pounded furiously and her cheeks flushed as  Nephlite guided her down the hallway. Her pride forced her to keep her  head high, even though she desperately wanted to disappear into the  stone walls. Despite the smell of chocolate and flour that lingered on  her, she could detect a woodsy aroma from the prince. It was the same  aroma she’d become so familiar with when they danced, and it was  making her dizzy.

“Would you like to visit the gardens?” he asked, faking nonchalance.

“I shouldn’t go so far. I do have a lot of work to do for tomorrow’s  ceremony.”

Nephlite stopped walking and turned to her. She took in the sight of  his long auburn hair falling messily over his shoulders, the casual  green tunic that accented his broad chest, and how, despite his bare  feet, he still towered over her—a feat that few men could lay claim  to. His blue eyes were haunted and turbulent as he watched her and she  almost couldn’t believe that these were the same eyes that had smiled  at her at the ball less than a week before. That night they had been  full of joy and affection and hope for a bright future.

She wasn’t sure what they were full of now.

Eventually, he cast his eyes downward, his hair falling over his face,  and leaned against a wall with a long exhale. That was when Lita  realized that she, too, had been holding her breath and she let it go  in a rush. Her dizziness returned.

“I wanted to apologize,” he whispered, not daring to look at her,  “for how I’ve treated you. For what I said. There is no excuse.”

She wanted to say, “No, there isn’t,” but she bit her tongue and  said nothing.

Taking her silence as a prompt to continue, Nephlite explained, “When  we first decided to hold an engagement ball, I’d thought that I would  meet a noblewoman and fall in love. But when I saw you, I thought you  must be a princess, and a princess I could have handled. I was prepared  for that. It fit into my idea of… perfection, I suppose.”

Lita walked aimlessly to the other side of the hallway, sinking to the  floor as the strength she’d been hoarding deserted her.

“And when I wasn’t that perfection you didn’t know what to do with  me.”

“That isn’t what I—”

“You shouldn’t have come here, Your Highness.” She looked up at him,  unshed tears glittering in her lashes. “We danced, that’s all. You  didn’t ask me to marry you. You haven’t betrayed your word or your  honor.”

“I’ve betrayed my heart, which is a hundred times worse.” Pushing  himself away from the wall, Nephlite kneeled before her, but she turned  away. “And I’ve betrayed you.”

“But you haven’t.”

“Lita, you may not be a princess, but it was stupid of me to think  that it matters. When Serena brought you back to the castle, I got  scared, because I was looking at the most beautiful girl I’ve ever  laid eyes on, and I could tell that you were so much stronger and  braver than me, and that you saw the world as being filled with light  and hope, despite everything that’s happened to you, and I knew, I  knew that you were a better person than I was and you deserved better  than me.” He laughed, as if finding the idea outrageous. “A girl that  society says is so far below me and yet I was worried that I wouldn’t  live up to your expectations. I didn’t know what to do. I know, it’s  stupid and I understand if you no longer want anything to do with me,  but…” His words died out with an anguished sigh.

“You thought that you wouldn’t live up to my expectations? Prince  Nephlite, I’ve slept in ashes all my life. My own stepmother and  sisters forced me to wait on them hand and foot, threatening to throw  me to the street if I didn’t. Do you have any idea how terrifying it  was for me to go to that ball? To pretend for one night that I could be  beautiful? To believe for one night that I deserved more than blistered  hands and stale bread? That I maybe even deserved to be loved? I didn’ t go to that ball expecting to marry a prince, I only wanted to feel as  though I belonged for once. And for a few hours you made me feel that  way, and you made me think that I was special and that my life could  change. That’s all that I wanted.” She turned her head down in an  attempt to conceal the first tears escaping her eyes. “But when I saw  you again without the dress or the jewels or the slippers, you looked  at me as if you were disgusted that a servant like me would even dream  of being loved by a prince like you.”

She paused, her hands trembling. “Perhaps that was your true betrayal. ”

Nephlite cringed, then looked up, startled, as Lita climbed to her  feet.

“But we shouldn’t do this. You’re a royal prince. There is no place  for me in your life. Besides, I have about a hundred wedding cakes to  make.”

“Lita.”

The desperation in his voice stilled her feet. He reached into a pocket  of his tunic and produced her glass slipper, just as clear and  brilliant as it had been when her fairy godmother placed it on her  foot. He held it up to her. “I’ve been carrying it around with me for  six days. I thought perhaps you would like it back.”

She took a hesitant step away from him. “What use have I of such a  pretty thing?” she whispered, before fleeing back to the kitchen.

The hectic kitchen once again fell into silence as Lita slipped through  the door, closed it, and buried her face in both hands. The kitchen  staff exchanged nervous glances, itching for gossip and desperately  curious. But the sound of Lita’s first sobs replaced those thoughts  with little more than a desire to comfort her, for in the short time  that they’d known her they’d all found it impossible not to love the  girl for her kind heart and unshakable optimism.

Slowly, the head cook stepped toward Lita and wrapped her arms around  the shaking girl, who quickly fell into the motherly embrace, crying a  week’s worth of tears onto her shoulder.

“There, there, darling. It’ll be alright.” She guided her toward the  sink and began to caress Lita’s red cheeks with a cool, damp rag. The  other attendants gathered around, hoping to somehow be of use.

Then the door swung open and Nephlite was in the doorway again,  frowning with determination.

Lita’s bloodshot eyes met his momentarily, but with a sob she spun  around and hid her face. “Oh, go away,” she pleaded. “Please, please  go away.”

Nephlite gulped, his hand tightening around the slipper, and slowly  approached her. The servants backed away as if he’d commanded it,  except the head cook who kept a protective arm around the girl.

“Lita,” he said with surprising conviction. “I’m in love with you. ”

She cried out in surprise, her sobs catching in her throat, but could  not turn to face him. He hesitantly stepped closer to her.

“I’m in love with you and I don’t care if the world knows. I want  the world to know. You’re the most amazing, beautiful, strong-willed,  hard-headed girl I’ve ever met and I adore you. The happiest moments  of my life were when we danced at that ball and I would give anything  to feel that way again. I don’t want a princess. I don’t want anyone  else.”

She swiped at the tears on her cheeks but couldn’t make them stop  falling, even when she felt Nephlite behind her. Steadily, he reached  out and set the slipper down on the counter. She reached out her  fingers and watched through blurred eyes as they slid over the cool,  smooth surface. Then, he set beside it a tiny velvet box. She  cautiously took it into her hand, surprised at how heavy it was, and  turned it over a few times in her palms. Her heart began to hammer  inside of her chest and her tears ceased to fall as trembling fingers  lifted the box’s lid. A gold ring with a diamond cut into the shape of  a rose glittered up at her. She sucked in a quick breath, feeling  suddenly faint.

“I know that you have no need of a prince,” Nephlite murmured. “But  I have the most painful need of you.”

Licking her lips, Lita slowly tipped the box’s lid until it snapped  close, and turned to face the prince, lifting her chin to meet his  eyes. She searched the brown depths for honesty and found in them  everything she’d hoped for and more. With a sniffle and a hint of a  smile, she whispered, “Prove it.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
A sudden pause infiltrated Endymion and Jadeite’s conversation as  Nephlite swept into the ballroom, laden with a tray of polished  silverware in one hand and a basket full of cloth napkins tucked  beneath the other arm.

Exchanging an uncertain glance with his blonde brother, Endymion  smirked and asked, “Nephlite… why are you wearing an apron?”

Ignoring them, Nephlite set his goodies down on the nearest banquet  table and began unloading the basket, folding each napkin carefully and  intricately and setting it down beside each lace-trimmed placemat. “It ’s proper kitchen attire,” he answered as if it was obvious, using  the apron to rub a smudge off a fork.

Jadeite and Endymion curiously saddled up to either side of the  brunette.

“And why are you dressed in proper kitchen attire?” Jadeite asked  with unhidden amusement.

“Because one of the kitchen staff became busy with other wedding  preparations and they needed an extra hand.”

“So you got tired of the whole princely gig and found your true  calling in… kitchen service?”

Nephlite finally met Endymion’s eyes and broke into a huge grin. “Yes … something like that. Say, do spoons go on the left or the right?”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena sat at her vanity, humming to herself and pulling a comb through  her long hair. She could hear servants rushing around the hallway  through her open door. It seemed the entire kingdom was caught in  preparation for tomorrow’s wedding ceremony. Her own maids had been  sent away close to an hour ago and she was grateful to be alone for  once and have the time to daydream to herself, even though she felt a  little guilty about the fantasies.

In her dream, Prince Endymion was her Darien from home, and he  remembered her and adored her. And they discovered that the betrothal  was a mistake and Princess Briar Rose was really engaged to some other  prince. And the second Endymion found this out he came running into  Serena’s room to tell her, and he confessed that the only reason he  had pushed her away was because he’d thought he was engaged and he  couldn’t have feelings for another girl, but now that that was no  longer the case, he wanted her hand in marriage.

Serena blushed. There was far too much talk of marriage going around.  She felt guilty about daydreaming about a man who was to be given to  another girl—especially when she realized that it was partly her  responsibility to make sure they really did fall in love and complete  the fairy tale. She had to ignore the jealousy building in her stomach  when she thought of Endymion getting married, and remind herself that  Prince Endymion and Darien Shields were two different boys.

Besides, she didn’t really like Endymion to begin with. He was rude  and arrogant and always wanted her to explain herself. And he never  trusted her judgments on anything. And he didn’t believe in true love,  and she could never fall for someone who wasn’t a romantic at heart,  so what was there to feel guilty about?

It wasn’t her fault that Endymion had the same haircut as Darien, and  the same voice, and that same crooked smile. And it wasn’t her fault  that he enjoyed tormenting her by being flirtatious one moment and a  complete jerk the next. He was quite despicable, really—when one  thought about it. He wasn’t even all that much like Darien. For  example, he… well, he was a prince. Darien wasn’t. Not officially, at  least.

She couldn’t really be in love with both of them, could she?

Serena set the brush on the vanity. Scowling at her reflection she  muttered, “Who says I’m in love with either of them?”

A knock startled Serena from her reverie and she turned to see Lita  leaning against her doorframe.

“Lita!” she exclaimed, jumping up from her chair. “Come in! It’s so  great to see—”

She froze as Lita raised up her left hand, displaying a diamond ring  that caught the light of every sconce in the room. Serena gasped,  clasping her hands over her mouth, and searched Lita’s expression.

Finally, looking as though she were about to burst, Lita said,  “Tomorrow’s going to be a double ceremony.”

Squealing with delight, Serena threw her arms around the brunette and  they both erupted in giggles. “I don’t believe it! It’s about time  that stupid prince snapped out of his stubborn idiocy. Wait—you are  marrying Nephlite, right?”

“Actually, I met this amazing pot scrubber. He’s great with his  hands.”

Her eyes widening, Serena pushed Lita to arm’s length. “Oh. Oh, that ’s great, Lita…”

Lita buckled over with laughter. “You’re too gullible! Of course I’m  marrying Nephlite! Do you think a pot scrubber could afford this ring? ”

Beaming, Serena pulled Lita toward her bed. “Don’t scare me like  that! Now sit down and tell me everything!”

Chapter 17: Betrothed
The prince approached her, and again he did not recognize her.
He led her out to dance and was so enchanted by her
beauty that he no longer thought of the other bride.
from The True Bride

Despite having been planned in less than a day, the outdoor wedding  ceremony went off without a hitch. Both Hansel and Gretel, as the ring  bearer and flower girl, were extremely well-behaved. The vows were  truthful and poetic and brought tears and sighs from all the ladies in  attendance. The garden itself seemed to have been preparing itself for  the occasion all summer long. The flowers looked to have blossomed  overnight for one extraordinary finale of scent and color before autumn ’s chills forced them into hibernation.

Serena blinked back the tears when she saw Amy and Lita appear together  at the end of the moss-covered aisle, each holding a small bouquet of  lilies and dressed in the most elegant wedding gowns Serena had ever  seen. She wondered if there was a stash of fine clothes somewhere in  the castle, or perhaps if Hota and her fellow fairy godmothers had  assisted with the extravagant wardrobes for the occasion. Either way,  they both resembled perfect princesses-to-be, though standing together  they looked like exact opposites: Lita with her long brown hair curling  around her waist and her near-imposing height dwarfed tiny Amy with her  cropped blue locks (which, Serena admonished, were growing out nicely).

Watching them glide down the aisle, Serena thought back to that morning  when she, Raye, Mina, and Queen Luna had helped the two brides dress  and style their hair. When Amy and Lita had first met, they had stood  looking at each other silently for a moment, needing no introductions,  before they laughed and embraced, a mutual understanding between them.  Neither seemed the slightest bit irritated that they would be sharing  their perfect day with another. In fact, despite having just met, they  acted as though they were already sisters.

The feelings of companionship had increased as their stories were told  and their hair curled and their bodies perfumed. Serena felt a strong  bond with all of the girls in that room and equated it to having  siblings for the first time in her life. Sharing in their happiness  made her journey feel charming and worthwhile and…

And very much like a fairy tale.

Sneaking a look at Raye’s face while she pinned an orchid into Lita’s  hair, Serena had known that the Maid of Honor felt the same way.

During the ceremony, as Andrew had the honor of marrying the two joyful  couples, Serena tore her gaze away from their smiling faces to survey  the crowd. Queen Luna sat in the front row, her fingers intertwined  with her husband’s, dabbing a handkerchief to her eyes. Beside her,  Mina and Malachite looked equally delighted.

Hota and Seiya, on the other hand, looked desperately bored.

Serena bit her tongue to keep from laughing and faced forward again,  her eyes instantly clashing with Endymion’s. He raised an eyebrow at  her cherry-red face and glanced over toward the two guardians, then  bowed his head with a near-inaudible snicker as well. When their eyes  met again, Endymion’s were twinkling. Serena felt a jolt to her  heartstrings. She felt as though they were sharing a secret.

Beside the youngest prince, Jadeite struggled to divide his attention  equally between the unification of two of his brothers and their  brides, little Gretel who kept straying from her post beside the altar  to follow a butterfly around the topiaries, and—Serena thought she was  sure—Raye. A smile came quickly to Serena’s face and, while she was  glad that two fairy tales seemed to have been successfully completed,  the romantic aura surrounding her made her anxious to move on to the  next story: Snow White.

The ceremony ended and the crowd proceeded into the ballroom where the  servants had been busy decorating and setting up tables full of food  and drink since before dawn. It seemed to Serena that the entire town  must have been present at the celebration as it became more and more  difficult to maneuver through the crowd. The dance floor was  immediately filled with couples. An orchestra—the same, she believed,  from Nephlite’s engagement ball—began to play. The newlyweds were  among the first on the floor and Serena’s heart soared as she watched  Zoicite give Amy her first lesson in the waltz, while Nephlite and Lita  danced merry circles around them. It was not long before Mina and  Malachite and Luna and Artemis were amongst them, but when Serena’s  eyes swept the room she noticed a lonely-looking Raye against a wall.  Two of the dwarfs were trying to entertain her by making snide remarks  about the haughtier-looking attendees, but Raye’s violet gaze was  staring into space, a dreamy-sad smile on her crimson lips. Though it  was obvious that many handsome youths desired to approach her, they all  seemed intimidated by her ax-bearing companions. None dared come close.

Not even Jadeite, loitering a few yards away, seemed keen on asking the  maiden to dance, though his eyes continuously darting toward her made  it obvious that he could think of nothing else.

That was all the prompting the Chosen One required. Straightening her  back, Serena strutted toward the prince.

“I think she would say yes.”

Startled, Jadeite turned to her and blinked a few times before her  words registered. “I’m sorry?”

“No need to apologize. Just go ask her.”

Jadeite furrowed his brow, before glancing back toward Raye who was  politely trying to hide a yawn. He turned back to Serena. “You mean…? ”

“Of course. No girl wants to be left a wallflower at a party like  this, and with those dwarfs hanging around her all night I doubt many  bachelors in the room will have the gall to ask. I’m sure she could  use a savior.” Winking, she took Jadeite’s wine from him and nudged  him away. “Go on.”

Glancing back only once, Jadeite did approach Raye, whose face  instantly lit up as he held a hand toward her. Serena repressed a swoon  as the two walked onto the dance floor hand in hand, congratulating  herself once more on a job well done.

“May I have this dance, mi’lady?”

Turning, Serena giggled and nodded ecstatically. “Of course you may,  Andrew.”

The elf, who seemed positively delighted by how well the day was going,  especially in contrast to the two guardian companions who were making  themselves invisible in a far corner, led Serena onto the dance floor  and began to guide her around in steady circles to the music.

“The ceremony was wonderful, Andrew. I think you did a marvelous job  of capturing the feelings of both of their whirlwind romances.”

He laughed, tucking a strand of whitish-blonde hair behind one pointed  ear. “Thank you, Lady Serena. And thank you, as well, for making all  of this possible. I loathe to think who these two princes would be  marrying today had you not come when you did.”

Attempting to conceal a blush, Serena shrugged modestly and decided to  change the subject. “Have you noticed anything between Raye and  Jadeite?”

“Indeed I have. An instant attraction, and perhaps something deeper  growing every moment.”

She nodded in agreement.

“And have you noticed anything between Endymion and his betrothed?”

Serena nearly tripped over her dress. She came to a standstill, her  eyes wide as blood crept into her cheeks. “She’s here?”

“Oh yes,” Andrew murmured nonchalantly, though Serena’s shock was  embarrassingly obvious. “The royal family of Obelia are always invited  to our special ceremonies. Though the king was sadly detained this  time, Briar Rose arrived safely this morning. In fact, there she is  now, dancing with Prince Endymion.” He spun Serena around so that she  could get a good look at the couple and her heart plummeted to her feet  while all of the blood that had flooded her face a moment before now  drained from it completely.

She noticed Endymion first as he towered over most of the guests,  dressed in a silver tunic with black piping and gold buttons. Serena  shifted her eyes to the girl in his arms, and though their position was  typical of all of the dancing couples, she felt a vice clamp around her  heart at seeing Endymion’s hand rested on the girl’s back. The  princess had wavy hair of the oddest sea-green color down to her mid- back and Serena noted how some tendrils curled around Endymion’s  fingers. She was dressed in pale blue silk—the dress elegant and  modest. Endymion spun her around and Serena saw her face and barely  withheld a whimper. She was exotically beautiful, with pale, china-like  skin, a long, slender neck, and almond-shaped blue eyes. Everything,  from the way she danced to her posture to the haunted, faraway look in  her eyes, screamed princess.

“Princess Briar Rose,” Andrew confirmed, turning Serena away from  them. She found herself letting go of a breath she hadn’t realized she ’d been holding.

“Briar Rose,” she repeated, as if in a dream. “Sleeping Beauty.”

“Yes, yes, the cursed princess. This is only their second meeting—and  they were too young to remember the first.”

“They seem…” Serena started, then paused, having no words to  describe them. “They look lovely together.”

“Indeed, they are both quite attractive, aren’t they? And each  carries themselves with such a distinct aura of royalty.”

Serena nodded, watching the colored dresses of women flash by and  blinking at the awkward dampness she found filling up her eyes. She  mentally attributed it to the perfume-filled air that was certainly  having some sort of allergic effect on her.

“I feel that they will make a fine couple. I’m sure they will be  considerate and generous toward each other.”

Frowning, Serena looked down at Andrew who was watching her with a  peculiar glint in his green eyes.

“What are you getting at?”

He shrugged nonchalantly and peered over her shoulder toward the prince  and princess.

“Don’t you think they’re in love?” she pressed.

His lips curled gently upward. “Do you think they’re in love, Lady  Serena?”

He swirled her around again so that her eyes were once again glued to  Endymion and Briar Rose. She watched, unblinking, as the princess  twirled gracefully beneath his arm, before resting once again at the  perfect arm’s distance from him. And though his hand was tangled in  her long hair and their fingers were delicately caught up together,  Serena noticed that they were not looking at each other. In fact,  Endymion’s gaze seemed to be pointedly sweeping the dance floor,  attaching to random couples. Occasionally he would see one of his  brothers dancing with their wives and his blue eyes would soften ever- so-slightly beneath the shaggy black bangs, but as the couple danced  from view, he would once again appear immune to the loveliness of the  event.

And Briar Rose, it seemed, was not really in the ballroom at all. While  her feet knew all the proper steps and her body responded instinctively  to each of Endymion’s leads, her attention was hanging on some  invisible point. Once in awhile Serena watched the beautiful princess  close her eyes and sigh, before opening them and once again drift off  to wherever her imagination was keeping her.

Frowning, Serena looked down at Andrew who was watching her with mute  affirmation.

“But…” she stuttered, “but they’re engaged to be married.”

He nodded. “And I think they will make a lovely couple, don’t you?”

“Andrew, why aren’t they in love?”

He tilted his head to the side as if pondering her question, before  answering, “It is possible, Lady, that we are misreading their  signals. Perhaps they are in secret admiration of each other, and both  have simply come to be very good at hiding their emotions.”

Serena pursed her lips and glowered silently at a curtained wall, not  believing Andrew’s theory for a moment, and knowing that he didn’t  either.

“Ah, it looks as though she’s leaving.”

Turning as the song ended and a quicker waltz began, Serena saw Briar  Rose curtsying to the prince, who bowed politely back, before she left  the dance floor with ballerina-like grace.

Without bothering to explain to the Guardian of Romance, Serena pulled  herself from his arms and hurried after the girl.

She found her a moment later on the balcony overlooking the sea of  dresses and tunics, leaning against a pillar with her head down,  breathing in shaky breaths. Her green hair wisped mysteriously over her  pale skin, her hand clutched in front of her stomach so tight that her  knuckles were white, and a sudden sting of pity tore at Serena’s  heart. She gulped and walked slowly toward the princess who didn’t  notice her until she reached forward and laid a tentative hand on her  elbow.

Jumping, Briar Rose spun around and Serena saw a wildness in her blue  eyes that flickered almost instantly away, replaced with cool serenity.  The princess straightened herself, neglecting the supportive pillar. “ Yes?”

Gulping, Serena tried a small curtsy. “Princess Briar Rose?”

She nodded.

“My name is Serena…” She trailed off, wondering if there was any  chance Endymion had mentioned her. No recognition entered the princess ’s expression, but her polite smile did not fade as she waited for  Serena to continue. “I wanted to introduce myself. I’m a guest here  in the castle and have heard much about you.”

Briar Rose’s eyelids fluttered and she dipped her neck in greeting. “ A pleasure, Lady Serena,” she said, before turning away in an implied  dismissal.

“I’ve heard about your curse,” Serena blurted.

The princess paused and turned to face her again, a shadow falling over  her face. “Who hasn’t?” she asked and Serena caught the first trace  of resentment.

“Er, I didn’t… The thing is…” She could tell that Briar Rose’s  patience was quickly faltering, and spat, “I think I can help.”

Raising a thin eyebrow, the princess swept her gaze over the blonde  speculatively. “Help? My dear girl, every witch and warlock in the  land has tried to undo Queen Beryl’s curse. I highly doubt that you— ”

“I don’t mean to break the curse, Princess,” Serena interrupted.

“Then what do you mean?”

Serena cleared her throat and proceeded with false confidence.  “Correct me if I’m wrong, but the curse is to be broken by love’s  first kiss, yes?”

Daring to look up, she saw a look of animosity in Briar Rose’s eyes.  “I am quite aware of what the curse says,” she deadpanned.

“I’m sure. It’s just… I’m slightly concerned…” Serena fiddled  with the skirt of her dress, searching the princess’s stare for  reassurance but finding only irritation. Finally, inhaling a sharp  breath, she asked, “Are you in love with Prince Endymion?”

She expected to see a darker look of annoyance on Briar Rose’s  beautiful face, but instead she saw only astonishment. The princess  watched her silently for a moment, before her gaze swept over the dance  floor below them, looking awkward and trapped. Licking her lips, she  hesitantly returned her gaze to Serena. “You said you are a guest of  the castle?”

“Yes.”

“Almost certainly, then, of the royal family?”

“Well, yes,” Serena stammered.

Briar Rose nodded and looked away again, a strange sadness filling her  eyes. “Prince Endymion is very handsome,” she murmured half- heartedly. “And I am sure he is very kind and will make a great king  for Obelia. I know that I am lucky to be betrothed to such a fine man. ” The words seemed forced and practiced . They echoed tragically in  Serena’s head.

“Then you aren’t?” she breathed, finding it near impossible to  believe. A strange hope began to grow in her heart and she squashed it  as quickly as she could.

The princess turned to her again, the sadness gone and the irritation  more evident than before. “What do you want, Lady Serena?”

She gulped. “I want… I only want… for Endymion to find love. And…  and for you to find love, too.”

Laughing ironically, the princess shook her head and began picking  invisible lint from her dress. “And what makes you think that I haven ’t, Lady?”

“Excuse me?” Serena faltered, searching the princess’s face, but  when no reply to her outburst was forthcoming, she forced herself to  continue, “But if you aren’t in love with Endymion, then… are you in  love with someone else?”

Briar Rose opened her mouth to speak, but seemed to think better of it.  Finally she muttered, “Of course not. It was only hypothetical,”  before she turned and disappeared into the crowd.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The three guardians were watching Serena as she traipsed nervously down  the steps into the crowded ballroom, clutching the rail. She noticed  them and tried to smile a little before heading toward their table,  wondering exactly what she would say to them when she didn’t have the  slightest idea how to fix this fairy tale in the first place. She only  hoped that perhaps they would be able to offer some guidance.

A gentle hand on her wrist stopped her before she reached their table,  though, and she turned to find herself staring into grinning blue eyes.

“A dance?” Prince Endymion asked in a tone that made rejection  impossible, his hand sliding down her arm to grasp her fingers.

“Oh!” she exclaimed, blushing against her will and turning to see the  guardians watching her with amused expressions. “I shouldn’t!”

“Why not?” Endymion said with a chuckle. “I saw you dancing with  Andrew earlier, so I know that you can.” Ignoring her half-hearted  attempts to decline, the prince pulled her into the cluster of twirling  guests and firmly wrapped an arm about her waist. She looked up at him,  flushed and wide-eyed, and imagined him holding Briar Rose like this,  but she knew that he was now holding her much closer than he had the  princess. She gulped.

“Enjoying the festivities, Lady?” he asked, and she could tell he was  putting on regal airs—to amuse her, she thought.

“The wedding was lovely,” she answered, trying to focus her attention  on any of the numerous handsome men dancing around her.

“Yes. You seem like the type of girl who lives for days like these.”  His voice was teasing, but honest.

Serena forced herself to unclench her jaw and smile. “And to think, in  just a few days we’ll be celebrating your wedding.”

The glimmer in his eyes died and Endymion shifted uncomfortably, before  spinning Serena beneath an arm. When she was held close to him again,  his tiny, carefree smile had returned. “To think,” he responded  noncommittally.

“I saw you dancing with her.”

“Dancing with who?”

She frowned at his attempts to dodge the conversation. “Your fiancé,  Princess Briar Rose.”

“Ah, my betrothed. Yes, we did share a dance, didn’t we? And what of  you? I think the elf was the only man I saw you with earlier. I hope  you haven’t been turning all of your suitors away, waiting for me to  ask for a dance.” Before she could respond, he craned his neck so that  their noses were almost touching. “I assure you, Mi’lady, I would  have asked long ago if I could have escaped sooner.”

Her eyelids fluttered in time with her heart as he pulled away and spun  her again. She used the opportunity of not being trapped in his warm  arms to shake herself from the stupor he’d put her in and when, a  moment later, his hand was on her back once more, she gathered her wits  and plowed on. “She sure is beautiful. I think you’re very lucky that  your parents chose for you such a suitable bride.”

“Ah, but there are many beautiful girls,” he whispered.

She gulped. “And graceful, too. I thought she was an excellent dancer. ”

His grin widened as he pulled her close, before turning her into a low  dip. She gasped, finding her hands instinctively around his neck as his  arms encircled her. “It takes two,” he murmured, before bringing her  to her feet again and continuing the dance without missing a step.

Serena shook her head and desperately tried to sort through the  emotions tumbling within her. Finally, she blurted, “What’s wrong  with her?” Endymion tilted his head and looked at her with simple  curiosity.

“I never said anything was wrong with her.”

Exasperated, Serena threw her hands into the air, but Endymion stole  the opportunity to dip her again. She wrapped her arms around his  shoulders with a squeal and found her lips mere inches from his. Her  breath snagged and she felt dizzy and weightless, trapped in his stormy  gaze.

“Why aren’t you in love with her?” she breathed in a last attempt to  avoid the hopeless situation Endymion seemed determined to throw them  into.

His lips twitched, but then he looked suddenly sad and lonely. Serena  impulsively tightened her arms around him.

“She treats me like a prince, and like an obligation,” he said and  Serena’s breath snagged—was he really confiding in her? “She doesn’ t make me smile, and she doesn’t make me laugh. She doesn’t care  about my family or my kingdom. And though she’s beautiful now, when I  try to picture what she will be like in twenty or thirty years, I can  think of her only as cold and distant. I want a wife who will be warm  and loving and witty even as we grow old.”

A silence draped over them, awkward and gripping, before Serena  muttered, “I was under the impression you didn’t want a wife at all. ”

His eyes never left her, even if he did look momentarily as if he’d  been caught in a terrible lie. “Funny what seeing your brothers madly  in love can do to a guy, I suppose. I do think my opinions of the  institution may have become somewhat effected.”

Having nothing else to say as her heart pounded furiously against her  ribs, Serena mustered a pathetic, “Oh.”

Slowly, Endymion lifted her to standing as the song ended. It took her  a moment to find the strength to hold herself, but as soon as she did,  she pulled safely away from him and forced herself into a curtsy. He  bowed in return, his eyes watching her, glinting strangely with an  emotion she feared to place.

Wetting her lips and trying to draw in steady breaths, Serena turned to  leave the dance floor and just as she did so her eyes met with those of  pale crystalline blue watching her from the ballroom steps. Gasping,  Serena clutched a guilty hand to her chest, but Briar Rose did not look  jealous or angry. If anything, she had a look of infinite understanding  on her pale features. A tiny smile lifted the corners of her lips and,  with an almost unperceivable nod, she turned and swept out of the room.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
“Nothing happened!” Serena all but screamed, pacing around her  bedroom as the three guardians watched from the foot of her bed. “We  just danced!”

“It’s just that you seemed awfully close,” murmured Hota.

“Look, I know it probably looked bad, but I swear there is nothing  between Endymion and me! I’m really trying to get him to fall in love  with Briar Rose. Honest!”

The guardians exchanged speculative glances and Serena threw her arms  into the air. “Look, he dipped me. What was I supposed to do about it? ”

“Well, you could have tried to look like you weren’t enjoying it so  much,” suggested Andrew.

“What? I was not—I didn’t—gah!” Kicking her feet, Serena flung her  slippers into a far corner. “He’s just a good dancer, that’s all! It  just felt… It just feels pleasant dancing with him. All right? Is that  so terrible?”

“What did Briar Rose say when you talked to her?” asked Andrew, and  normally Serena would have been grateful for the change of topic, but  that conversation seemed even less likely to earn the guardians’  approval.

“Well, erm, she said… that… she thinks Prince Endymion is handsome. ”

“Well, good, at least we know she isn’t blind,” muttered Hota.

“And she felt that he would make a good ruler of her kingdom.”

Their eyes watched her, silently urging her to continue.

Serena gulped, wringing her hands. Finally, with a groan, she collapsed  to the floor, her skirt billowing onto the carpet around her. “She  doesn’t love him!” she wailed. “I don’t know why, but it’s obvious  that she doesn’t! In fact, I… I think…I think she might be in love  with someone else.”

Seiya snorted, but Andrew jumped to his feet with a humorless laugh. “ Someone else? How could she be in love with someone else?”

“I don’t know! I’ve been here for less than two weeks; I haven’t  quite had time to digest all of the complex love triangles yet.”

“Well, who is it?”

“How am I supposed to know?”

“This is awful. Are you sure?”

“Well… no, not entirely. But it seemed pretty obvious…”

Tucking his bangs behind his tall ears, Andrew sat on the bed again and  leaned his elbows on his knees. “We have to find out who he is, of  course.”

Serena nodded uncertainly. “Of course.”

“And quickly,” added Hota. “Her birthday is only three days away— the curse could come to pass any minute now.”

“And without love’s first kiss…” hinted Andrew. “This mystery  lover of hers could answer many questions. We must know who it is in  order to make sure everything goes according to plan. Otherwise it  could ruin everything.”

Serena frowned, feeling like maybe Andrew was overreacting just a tad,  when a thought occurred to her and she jumped happily to her feet.  “Perhaps it’s another prince!” she cried hopefully. “Of course a  prince awakens the sleeping beauty, but perhaps Endymion is not the  prince to do so. Perhaps she’s been wrongly betrothed.” She smiled  expectantly but the guardians did not look convinced and so she  stubbornly added, “It’s possible.”

Drawing fingers over his chin, Andrew conceded as if the thought were  very disturbing, “Yes, I suppose it is possible.”

A knock at the door startled them. “Come in,” called Serena.

A young maid opened the door and curtsied. “Pardon my intrusion. Her  Majesty of Obelia, the Princess Briar Rose, has requested the honor of  Lady Serena’s presence in her quarters.”

Serena turned to the guardians, who only shrugged back at her. “Can’t  very well decline the request of a princess, can I?” she asked.

“Lady Serena,” said Andrew as she started toward the door. “Can you  recall any story in which the betrothed prince and princess did not  fall in love?”

She hesitated, pondering the question, before slowly shaking her head.

“Neither can I. The situation may look dreary now, Chosen One, but don ’t give up on those two just yet.”

Chapter 18: The Beanstalk
The beans his mother had thrown out the window had turned into a
massive beanstalk that grew up and up and up until it reached the sky.
from Jack and the Beanstalk

Briar Rose was sitting at her vanity when Serena entered, staring  unseeing into her mirror. She jumped when the maid announced Serena’s  arrival, but her composure was soon regained.

The maid curtsied and ducked out and Serena was left wringing her hands  as Briar Rose ran a hairbrush quickly through her thick hair. The sight  reminded Serena of the horrible glimpse into the dark well by Snow  White’s cottage—the shadow girl being stabbed with a poison comb, red  lips evilly smirking…. Serena shook off the memory.

“You asked to see me?”

“Yes,” the princess murmured, pushing her chair away from the vanity  and standing. “Please, have a seat.” She gestured to a pair of soft  chairs by a large, curtained window.

Serena complied and Briar Rose sat across from her. “Would you like  some tea?”

“No, thank you.”

“Wine? Coffee?”

“I’m fine, thanks.”

The princess nodded and leaned back in her chair.

After an uncomfortable silence, Serena began, “Was there something—”

“I wanted to apologize for my coldness toward you at the reception.”

“Oh,” Serena hesitated. “Oh, that’s all right. I know it was a  sensitive subject.”

“When you told me that you wanted to help, I assumed… I didn’t think  that our objectives would be so similar.”

Serena blinked, then cautiously asked, “What objectives?”

“Terminating the engagement between Prince Endymion and myself.”

Serena coughed as color rushed to her cheeks. “You see, I’m not sure  we really do share that objective….”

Smiling fondly, Briar Rose reached out a hand and patted Serena’s arm.  “It’s all right, Lady Serena. You can talk freely with me. We’re on  the same side now.”

“I didn’t realize we were choosing sides.”

“And after seeing how Endymion looked at you, I’m sure we could  enlist his help as well, don’t you think?”

“Er, his help… for… What do you mean how he looked at me?”

Briar Rose giggled as if Serena had said something very silly.  “Honestly, don’t be so shy. How can Endymion marry you when he’s  engaged to me?”

Serena choked, looking down at her hands to catch her breath. Before  she could protest, Briar Rose continued, “And obviously I can’t marry  whom I choose either, so long as this silly betrothal continues. Don’t  you think we should both be permitted to marry for love?”

Looking up, Serena saw Briar Rose watching her with so much hope  shining in her eyes that she felt guilt and shame rise up in her  stomach. Sitting straighter, she took Briar Rose’s hands into hers. “ Who is it? Who are you so in love with that you would choose him over  Endymion?”

Her gaze softening, Briar Rose lowered her eyelashes with a tiny smile  on her lips.

Serena’s hands tightened. “Is it another prince? From another  kingdom? One who could break the spell?”

Meeting her stare, Briar Rose’s smile remained, though her eyes held a  deep sadness. “No, he isn’t a prince.”

Serena felt her excitement plummet.

“In fact, he’s just.… He’s a huntsman.”

“A huntsman?”

“Yes. And I know what you’re thinking,” Briar Rose pulled her hands  from Serena’s grip and stood up, turning toward the window. “You’re  thinking that I must be out of my mind. A princess like me, falling for  a common huntsman like him. And I always thought I was crazy, too, that  there must be something wrong with me. But not anymore. Not after the  wedding today.” She laughed and turned back to Serena. “I’ve heard  the stories, of course. One bride a lowly servant who managed to slip  into the ball without an invitation, the other found in a tower deep in  the woods with little knowledge of any social graces. Neither were  royalty! Neither were even nobility. And then there is Princess Mina,  who was the daughter of a mere farmer before it was discovered that she  could spin straw into gold.” She shook her head, smiling. “If Aysel  can do it, why can’t Obelia? Why can’t I marry Alex?”

“Alex,” Serena repeated.

“He may not be rich or titled, but he is brave and strong and would  excel as a ruler.”

Serena lowered her head, her shoulders shaking. “But, the curse…”

“The curse does not say it needs to be a prince, only that it will be  love’s first kiss.”

“The story says it must be a prince,” Serena whispered to herself.

“And it is love, Lady Serena. It has always been love. I can remember  the first time I saw him. I was only thirteen. He was quite a bit older  but I couldn’t help being drawn to him. He was covered in dirt and  unshaven, seeking sanctuary in our castle. He has never told me the  whole story, but I know that he risked his own life to save another,  and I don’t believe he has any regrets…” Her voice was whimsical as  she paced to the window and drew back the curtains to stare out onto a  star-filled sky. “I have loved him from the first moment, and though  he’s never said it—his honor would not allow him to—I know he loves  me too.” She turned her eyes, quickly filling with tears, back to  Serena. “You have to help me cancel this wedding.”

Serena turned away. “I don’t know…”

“If not for me, then do it for you and Endymion. Don’t you love him? ”

Every muscle in Serena’s body tensed.

“It’s all right. I understand that you’ve been trying to hide your  feelings, to protect yourself from almost certain disappointment, but  you don’t have to hide them anymore. If we can talk to King Artemis  and Queen Luna, and then my father…. Make them understand. Explain to  them… Surely they can’t hold us to this engagement once they know how  we all feel, can they?”

“It isn’t that simple.”

“It’s only more difficult because society has made it that way. What ’s the use of us all being miserable?”

Serena rubbed her fingers over her eyes. “Briar Rose, I think you  should take some time to consider what it is you’re suggesting.”

“Time?” she cried, as if Serena had just asked her to chop off her  own hand. “We don’t have any time! The wedding is in four days!”

“Yes, but if you don’t wake up from that curse, there won’t be a  wedding, regardless of who the groom is!”

Briar Rose pursed her lips so that they turned white. After a short  pause, she inhaled shakily and sat in the chair beside Serena again. “ Who is to say that Prince Endymion will even be able to wake me? If he  doesn’t love me, and I don’t love him…”

“I know, I know,” Serena muttered. “I’m still working on that part.  It’s just that if you were in love with a prince, I could see how the  betrothals were possibly mixed up, but…”

“Why must I force my heart to choose based on society’s restrictions?  The princes of this kingdom haven’t.”

Leaning back, Serena stared up at the ornately carved ceiling. “I’m  going to try to make everything all right. I’m not sure exactly how  yet, but I’ll get this all figured out. In the meantime, I need you to  do two things for me.”

“And what would those be?”

“First, I want you to try and give Endymion a chance.”

The princess scoffed. “What’s the point? Even if I did have some  interest in him, he’s so taken by you that—”

“There is nothing between Prince Endymion and me,” Serena  interrupted, “And all I’m asking is that you give him a chance. Get  to know him a little. Just in case.”

Briar Rose frowned but didn’t argue further. “And your second  request?”

“Well, it slightly contradicts the first one, but I think you should  have Alex summoned to the castle.”

Raising her eyebrows, the princess slowly turned away from Serena and  lowered her gaze to the floor. “He’s already in the castle,” she  murmured.

“What? He’s here?”

Briar Rose nodded. “His skills and swordsmanship have earned him a  place as one of my private guards. As such, he and one other have made  this trip with me.”

“Where is he now?”

“I’m not sure. The hallway, the next room? My royal guards are rarely  in sight, yet never far. They protect me well.”

Serena nodded in understanding and stood to leave. “That’s probably  for the best. Briar Rose, it may be wise not to speak of this to anyone  just yet. I’ll see what I can do, but it won’t help for you to go  stirring things up unnecessarily.”

Standing beside her, Briar Rose grabbed Serena’s wrist and Serena  thought she detected desperation behind her eyes. “You’ll try,  though, won’t you, Serena? To cancel the wedding? To break off the  engagement?”

Gulping, Serena patted the girl’s hand as warmly as she could. “I’ll  try to make everything all right.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The morning after the double wedding was gray and drizzly, as if the  summer had used its last spurt of energy the day before and now autumn  was truly taking over—winter on its heels. Serena lay in bed long  after she’d woken up, listening to the rain on the balcony and  thinking of all that had happened since she had arrived in this strange  land. From the death of Rumpelstiltskin to the hunt for Cinderella, the  defeat of the two witches to her conversation with Briar Rose, it  seemed impossible to think she’d been there for less than two weeks.  In some ways this world, this castle, was beginning to feel a little  bit like a home, and the princes and their wives and the guardians were  all beginning to feel a little bit like family.

But not entirely, she thought, realizing for the first time in days  that she was homesick. She missed the familiar scent of the arcade and  the taste of sugar cookies from the bakery down the street. She missed  her classmates and the shopping center. She missed her mother  desperately. She missed Melvin. She missed watching Darien Shields  walking down the halls on his way to class.

She shook her head against the pillow as her mind conjured two images  of a grinning Darien—one in his un-ironed school uniform, the other in  a silver tunic. It seemed that all her life she’d been dreaming of  this place with its golden wheat fields and soaring castle towers and  magic spells and graceful princesses and excitement and danger and  romance, and now that she was living it she was beginning to recognize  all the magic that her own world had. The life she’d known had been  familiar and comfortable and warm, like hot cocoa on a winter night. It  may not have been adventurous, but it was a good life filled with love  and friends and a bright, promising future. She didn’t know what the  future in this new world held for her.

Pulling a white chenille robe on over her pajamas, Serena paced to the  window and stood watching the rain dripping down the glass, blurring  the world beneath her. The music it created lulled her into a dazed  state and she felt warm and protected in her room in the castle. For a  moment she felt free of responsibility and allowed herself to enjoy  nature’s poetry. She forbid herself to think of Prince Endymion or  Briar Rose or betrothals or curses. All in good time, she would figure  it out.

Movement in the garden caught her eye and Serena curiously leaned  closer to the window, peering into the dark. Clutching the front of her  robe, she opened the glass to gain a clearer view and was able to  recognize Raye walking down in the garden, wrapped in a thick cloak  with the hood down. Her head was tilted back. The rain shone silver in  her black hair and her skin glowed with the lights from the castle. She  was angelic and content beneath the sky’s showers.

Serena smiled, the girl’s tranquility contagious, but a moment later  her heart skipped to see another figure coming out of the castle,  slowly but deliberately, with a fur blanket clutched in his arms.  Jadeite approached Raye in measured strides, stepping loudly into a  puddle to alert her of his presence. She turned to him and Serena  thought she saw a smile alighting her crimson lips as Jadeite held out  the fur blanket and, a moment later, they were both wrapped up in it  with their smiling faces held up toward the sky.

Serena’s heart quickened delightedly at the sight. The circumstances  between Endymion and Briar Rose had been plaguing her thoughts so much  that she’d nearly forgotten about the fifth prince. She was elated to  see that Jadeite and Raye seemed to be doing just fine without her  help. She hoped things stayed that way.

“Ahem.”

Serena gasped and turned away from the window to see Andrew standing in  the doorway with a tray in his hands.

“My apologies, Lady, but I don’t think you heard my knocking.”

“No, I didn’t,” Serena amended, shutting the window and tightening  the belt of her robe. “What did you bring me?”

Andrew didn’t bother to answer, but set the tray down for Serena to  peruse the assorted pastries as he poured two cups of coffee.

“Thanks, Andrew! You’re the best!” she said, eagerly grabbing a warm  apple strudel.

He chuckled. “I’m afraid my motives are quite selfish. I wanted to  have a word with you.” He topped off Serena’s cup with just the right  amounts of cream and sugar—he must have been paying attention during  their excursion to the Penelope Mansion—and set it on her nightstand  while she lazily crawled beneath the covers, enjoying her breakfast in  bed.

“A word about what?” Serena asked, finishing the strudel and  following it with a sip of coffee and a happy sigh before reaching for  a poppy seed muffin.

“I was curious about your conversation with the princess last night. I  was hoping that perhaps something was said that would enlighten us all  in the situation between her and Prince Endymion.”

Serena frowned and set the muffin down on her nightstand, taking  another sip of coffee. “Well,” she began, “she... wants me to help  her break off the engagement.”

Andrew’s face fell and he sadly shook his head. “I was afraid of  that.”

“Andrew, it seems to me that there’s been a mistake in the betrothal  between Briar Rose and Endymion. They obviously aren’t in love with  each other, so... why should we force them into this marriage? This can ’t really be their happy ending, can it?”

Andrew drew his legs onto the bed. There was a moment of silence in  which it was apparent that the elf was searching for the right words,  before he began to speak. “Lady Serena, you are perhaps unaware of a  certain gift that Hota, Seiya, and myself were given at the beginning  of our occupations that aid us in our respective roles as guardians. As  I’m sure you’re aware, there is a good deal of magic in this world.  It is a form of sustenance to all of the people of this land and all  the kingdoms therein. It is powerful and inescapable. Often it  surrounds us like a gentle breeze, pleasant but not overwhelming. Other  times it is like a stormy gale that could topple stone walls. While  magic surrounds all people and affects all people, it is stronger with  some than with others. For most, it is a subtle force that may, once in  awhile, make their evening meal taste a little better or keep the fire  in their hearth burning a little longer. But there are some for whom  the magic wounds around so tightly that it can pull them toward a  destiny of immense adventure, tragedy, or love.” Andrew licked his  lips, unsure of how to continue. He searched Serena’s eyes to see if  she was following his explanation, then proceeded, “The other  guardians and I are drawn to these people. The magic that encompasses  them is often so thick that it is almost tangible to us. Hota can often  tell if a person is destined for great acts of heroism, Seiya can  perceive who will fall into horrific despair, and I am often aware of  destined romances, sometimes even before the first spark of attraction. ”

“Okay...” Serena said, slowly. “And you’ve seen, or felt, a  romantic destiny between Endymion and Briar Rose?”

Andrew frowned. “Yes, and no. My fellow guardians and I were all  present at the blessing ceremony of Briar Rose, not a week after her  birth. As is customary, we all bestowed upon her gifts that we believed  would be helpful to her as she grew into a young woman, and eventually  a queen. I gave her the gift of beauty, Hota gave her the gift of  courage, and Seiya gave her the gift of compassion.”

“And the curse...”

“Yes, this was also the fateful day that Queen Beryl came, uninvited,  and bestowed the princess with the curse of death by the prick of a  spinning wheel. Of course, that curse was changed not long after, but  we’re getting off topic.” He inhaled a deep breath, and started  again, “Also present at this ceremony was the royal family of Aysel,  for it was to also be the day of betrothal of the princess and the  youngest prince. Lady Serena, you ask why I would want to force them  into a marriage when they do not love each other, and I assure you I  have no desire to do so. However, that day, as the young prince’s  mother brought him to the cradle of the tiny princess (for he was still  a babe himself)...” An intent look crossed Andrew’s features as he  became lost in the memory, “there was a magic of such intense,  unmistakable love between the two that it was staggering. I have never,  in all my long life as a guardian, seen such a perfect, destined love. ”

Serena took an uncertain sip of her coffee and grimaced to find that it  had gone cold. Setting it down she turned to face the rain-soaked  window. “But then, why...?”

“I don’t know,” Andrew answered. “As the years have gone by, the  magic that once so encompassed Endymion has faded away to near  nonexistence. In fact, due to the destruction and misery that Queen  Beryl has wrought on the land, much of the magic that once was so  powerful in this world has disappeared. It is only at rare times that  we guardians are able to ascertain it at all, and then only on beings  who carry it most strongly around them. Endymion—magic clings to him  like none I have ever known, but even now my glimpses of it are rare. I  was hoping that as his wedding date approached, the bond between him  and Briar Rose would strengthen and become what it once was. And it is  true that the aura surrounding the prince has become steadily brighter  the last few weeks, but it is nothing like it was the day of their  betrothal.” He shook his head with a baffled expression. “I cannot  make heads or tails of it. I have been wracking my brain to figure out  why this love, that was once so pure and beautiful, would now be  nothing more than mild acceptance. Even Beryl’s evil should not be  able to eradicate such a thing.

“Lady Serena, this is precisely the type of dilemma that we need your  assistance for. These sorts of problems, this confusion with the magic,  this... changing of the magic, never used to occur. Destinies are not  supposed to mix or falter or change as they have been. I know that I  could not have been mistaken about the love between Endymion and Briar  Rose so many years ago, and if it can be fixed, it must be. It is the  only way we can set things straight.”

Serena pursed her lips and mulled over all that Andrew had said, trying  to imagine Endymion loving Briar Rose with as much intensity as Andrew  seemed to think he should, and she found that she could not. Still, he  was the Guardian of Romance, and if he believed what he had seen was  the real thing, she could think of no dispute against him. “I’ll try, ” she murmured.

“Thank you. I, of course, shall assist you in any way that I can.”

“There is one thing that perhaps will provide some answers.”
“And what is that, my lady?”

“Briar Rose told me about the man that she is supposedly in love with  last night.”
Andrew sat up straighter. “Is that so?”

“His name is Alex. He’s part of her personal guard and she says that  she’s loved him since she was thirteen, since she first met him.”

“I see,” Andrew hummed thoughtfully.

“Would it be possible for you to… to do some research, see what you  can find out about him? Maybe he’s the key to all of this.”

“It has potential,” Andrew agreed, stroking his chin. “I’ll look  into it. In the meantime, you will continue to talk with her and  Endymion? See if you can’t spark something, anything, between them?”

“I’ll try,” she repeated.

Seemingly content with that response, Andrew stood to leave, but as he  approached the bedroom door, Serena called his name and he turned back.

“If you and Hota and Seiya had already given your blessing to Briar  Rose when Queen Beryl cursed her, who changed the spell from death to  sleep?”

Andrew’s lips curled up subtly. “Why, Master Grimm did, of course,”  he said, before disappearing into the hallway. A moment later, Serena  heard Andrew’s cheerful voice exclaiming, “Oh, good morning, Prince  Endymion!” She gasped and pulled the blankets up to her shoulders,  running her fingers through her tangled hair. Then, upon realizing just  what it was she was doing, she stopped with a scowl that should have  been directed at herself but was instead the expression Endymion first  saw upon entering her chambers.

Stopping half a step into the room, Endymion instantly shot up an  eyebrow. “And what has you in such a grumpy mood?” he asked teasingly  as Serena forced her expression into something more welcoming, a blush  tinting her cheeks.

“Nothing,” she huffed.

Endymion strutted toward the tray of goodies, selecting an apple  turnover and re-filling Andrew’s deserted mug with coffee.

“Are girls always this lazy where you come from?”

“I’m not being lazy! I feel like I haven’t stopped moving since the  day I got here, and it has been a very busy two weeks, I’ll gladly  remind you. A girl deserves a day off from time to time.”

“Well, be that as it may, today shall not be that day. Come on, get  dressed.”

“Why?” Serena whined, collapsing onto her pillows and pulling the  covers over her head. “I’m determined not to do a darn thing today.  Don’t ruin it.”

Endymion smiled at her dramatic sniffling and walked around to her side  of the massive canopy bed. “If you don’t come out of there, I’m  crawling in with you.”

Quickly, her eyes appeared over the top of the comforter, glaring at  him. “You wouldn’t.”

“Oh?” He grabbed the blankets and began to slip off his shoes to  prove his point, but Serena’s arm shot out to hold down the covers  with stubborn intensity. “I’ll tell the king!”

Laughing, Endymion tried a different tactic, grabbing the blankets and  pulling them off the bed in one fell swoop. Serena screamed and  desperately tried to catch them, but was left scrambling over the bed  to no avail.

“You jerk!” she screeched and lunged for the cackling prince—but the  belt of her robe caught on one of the bedposts and she soon felt  herself tumbling to the ground and landing in a heap of pillows and  sheets.

The scene too much. Endymion collapsed to the floor beside her,  clutching his stomach with both arms.

Scowling, but discovering herself more or less unharmed, Serena picked  herself off the pile of bedding, straightened out and retied her robe,  and marched over to the breakfast tray. A moment later, Endymion’s  laughter was promptly stifled by the insertion of a cherry donut in his  mouth.

Harrumphing, Serena proudly dusted powdered sugar from her hands and  began throwing the blankets back onto her bed.

“Dear Grimm, you’re cute when you’re mad.”

Her eyes widening, Serena’s common sense wasn’t quick enough to  prevent the blood from rushing to her face—again. Spinning to face  him, masking the delighted thumping of her heart with stubborn anger,  she yelled, “Hey! You are not allowed to flatter me after laughing at  me like that!”

Endymion’s lips quirked as he licked some cherry filling from his  fingers. “Ah, but you’re cute when you’re being a klutz, too.”

Drawing her brow down furiously, Serena pointed to the door. “Get out  of my room! I don’t recall inviting you in anyway!”

Bouncing to his feet, Endymion shook his head. “No can do, Oh Great  Chosen One. I have something to show you. Now get dressed—and make it  warm; it’s raining unicorns out there.”

“Raining unicorns?”

“Sure,” he said nonchalantly, pushing her toward her dressing  chambers. “What does it rain where you come from?”

“Cats and dogs.”

“See? Which do you think is stranger?” He didn’t wait for her to  answer as he slid the dressing room door closed.

“How much farther?” she whined, shivering beneath her two—yes, two— wool cloaks.

“Only about a quarter of a mile,” answered Endymion, “horizontally. ”

“Horizontally? What does that mean?”

“There, you can see it!” Endymion said, wrapping an arm around Serena ’s shoulder and pointing.

It took a long time of staring through the incessant shower for Serena  to see what he was pointing at, but then she did with a loud gasp.  “What is it?” she whispered, feeling warm for the first time since  they’d left the castle with the heat of Endymion’s arm around her.

“It’s called a beanstalk. They’re very rare. This one just sprouted  a few days ago. It wasn’t there when we left to go hunting, but I  caught sight of it on our way back. I would have told you about it  earlier, but everything’s been so turbulent lately. Besides, I wanted  to check it out first, make sure it’s safe.”

"But... Jack and the Beanstalk isn't a Grimm tale..."

"Who isn't a what?"

"Nevermind," Serena hastily amended, once again looking up at the  beanstalk with a feeling of unease. "So... it's beautiful and all,  but... we aren’t going to climb it, are we?”

“Of course we are,” he said with an expression somewhere between  surprise and teasing. “It’s not as bad as it looks. Plus, about forty  feet up it turns into a staircase.”

His arm was suddenly gone and Serena could have kicked herself for  missing it, but the feeling of loss almost immediately disintegrated as  Endymion reached for her gloved hand and began guiding her along the  forest floor.

Serena would have been forced to admit that, of all the familiarities  outlined in this fairy tale land, the beanstalk was one that her  imagination had been completely wrong about. When reading “Jack and  the Beanstalk,” she’d always thought of the great vine to be like an  oversized tree trunk, brown and green with giant, flat leaves, and  knotholes and tangled vines clinging to it. She now discovered,  however, that the stalk was more like a living tower. It was about the  diameter of a water well, with a shining silver-green surface that had,  she noticed as they came closer, an almost obnoxiously obvious ladder  sprouting from one side. Whereas she’d always thought the beanstalk  would be daunting, this one was practically begging someone to climb  it.

She couldn’t help but think that her idea had been better.

“Ladies first,” Endymion said when they reached the base.

Serena reached out to feel the ladder, finding that the overhanging  canopy of the forest had left the ladder pleasantly dry—and it even  felt eerily warm. Frowning, she looked up, but whatever there was to  see of the beanstalk disappeared past the first level of foliage  overhead. “Is this dangerous?”

“Come now, would I ask you to do something dangerous?”

She turned a cool scowl on him, and his sarcastic smile widened.

“Honestly, Endymion, don’t you know what lives at the top of  beanstalks?”

“Of course I do, and I see that, once again, your knowledge of our  world is impeccable. Don’t worry, Sere, the giant will be sleeping at  this time of day, and there’s something—well, someone, I guess—that  I want you to meet.”

“Who?”

“You’ll have to climb to find out.”

Chapter 19: The Singing Harp

The beanstalk ran up like a big ladder, so Jack climbed,
and he climbed, and he climbed, until at last he reached the sky.

from Jack and the Beanstalk

They climbed for about forty feet, as Endymion had said, before a  platform jutted from the wall, wide enough for four adults to stand  comfortably. They took a short break and Serena looked around at the  forest around them, noticing birds’ nests that she never would have  seen from the ground, and gazing at the reds and golds of the rain- slicked autumn leaves. She felt like she was standing in a large,  living treasure chest.

Soon, Endymion urged them to continue, this time up a staircase that  spiraled around the stalk. When Serena started to puff for air,  Endymion slowed the pace, but they didn’t stop, even as they cleared  the top of the forest and the rain began to assault them once again.  This was also about the same time that the stalk kindly sprouted a  railing for them to hold onto as they climbed.

The excitement was just turning into misery for Serena—her legs sore  and the rain about to seep through the last layer of clothing when she  looked up and gasped, startled to see that they’d reached the sky. At  least she assumed it was the sky. Overhead, a ceiling of gray, spongy  material stretched out in all directions, dripping heavily like  condensation drips from a mirror. Endymion grinned at her as he reached  up and pulled on a handle stuck right into the rain cloud, opening a  small hidden door.

“Welcome to the castle in the sky,” he announced, holding the door  for Serena to climb through. She stumbled into a cellar-like room with  cold gray walls lined with racks and racks of dusty wine bottles.

Enormous dusty wine bottles, that is. The smallest was about the size  of Serena herself.

“This way,” said Endymion, snapping Serena from her awed reverie. He  took her hand again and led her toward a door that must have stood  fifty feet high. By getting on their stomachs, they could slide  comfortably through the space between the door and the cold stone  floor. On the other side, Serena found herself facing what must have  been to the castle’s owner a short staircase. To Serena, however, the  top of each step hovered out of reach, even on tiptoes.

“Don’t worry,” said Endymion as he dragged her toward a wall on  their right. “There’s a rat hole over here.”

Serena froze when she saw the gaping hole in the wall that Endymion so  nonchalantly referred to as a rat hole. It was round and dark and at  least four feet wide. Squeaking, Serena tightened her grip on Endymion ’s hand. “Rats? Of that size? There is no way I’m going in there!”

“Relax,” Endymion chided, continuing to pull her along. “The rat  that created this hole has been gone a long, long time. Just look at  how thick the dust is in here.”

“But… if there were human-size rats, just think what else there might  be!” Serena wailed, imagining cobwebs the size of houses and having  dangerous flashbacks to Godzilla vs. Mothra.

Endymion turned to face her as she peered past his shoulder in the  pitch-black depth of the hole, and a second later, Serena squealed as  Endymion’s arms wound around her waist and she was pulled gently  against his chest. “Don’t worry, my fairest lady. I’m the best  hunter in all the land. I’ll protect you.”

Though his voice was soft and determined, the look on his face told  Serena that he was truly teasing her and, furrowing her brow, she  pushed him away. “You’re so cocky!” she screamed as he burst into  laughter—probably at her cherry-red face.

“Come on,” he coaxed, ignoring her fuming anger and sauntering into  the hole.

“But it’s so dark! We can’t see in there!”

“Not to worry, damsel in distress! I stashed these away when I came to  check it out last time.” A moment later, there was a spark as a torch  came to life in Endymion’s hand. It seemed to completely illuminate  the rat hole and Serena cautiously came closer, peering inside as  Endymion held it in the direction of a tunnel. There was, indeed, about  three inches of dust on the floor with one pair of footprints—Endymion ’s no doubt—disappearing in the direction of the staircase, but  otherwise it seemed devoid of life.

“Shall we?”

Pursing her lips, Serena cast a longing glance toward the door that led  back into the cellar and out of the giant’s castle, before following  Endymion into the hole.

The tunnel sloped gradually upward but there were no barriers for them  to pass and it seemed like they were walking up the incline for hours  with no change in the tunnel’s interior. Eventually, Endymion paused  and had Serena hold the torch while he rummaged through his cloak’s  large pockets, producing two rolls and a hunk of cheese. Serena could  have kissed him at that moment, but she instead greedily took the roll  and devoured it with minimal chewing—not having realized just how  hungry she’d been. The thought made her wonder how long it had been  since they left her room, half of the pastries still untouched.

After their small meal, they continued on, but it wasn’t much longer  before the tunnel veered to the right and a hint of light could be seen  in the distance. Serena’s step became more buoyant and she found  herself anxious to leave the dark, stifling tunnel behind and Endymion  had to hold onto the hood of her cloak to keep her from running to the  opening.

“Not so fast,” said Endymion, chuckling. “We’re still in the home  of a giant. We need to be cautious.”

Serena turned back to Endymion, her face paling. “I thought you said  he’d be napping!”

“And he should be, but that’s no reason for us to get reckless.” He  wrapped his arm around her neck and tugged lightly on a pigtail. “Now  who’s being cocky?”

Endymion took the lead as they got closer to the entrance and, when the  light became bright enough, extinguished the torch against the wall and  hid it and his flint in a corner. Serena waited silently while the  prince stuck his head out through the hole and looked around. “Coast  is clear.” Grabbing her hand, Endymion led her from the dark tunnel  and Serena inhaled a breath full of relief to be out of the hole.

Wasting no time, Endymion headed left and Serena let herself be dragged  as she gawked around with a hanging jaw. They were in a corridor of  sorts, with candle chandeliers the size of houses casting a warm glow  over stone walls and plush carpets that came to Serena’s ankles—she  imagined the carpet was probably pretty worn down, too. There were few  decorations on the walls but far away Serena thought she noticed a  window with heavy purple draperies, and knew that she would have loved  to look out of it. Of course, the sill was at least 20 feet overhead,  so even if Endymion had taken her in that direction, it would have been  far too much work to get a peek of the giant outdoors.

They continued at a quick stride, down one hallway that stretched out  for miles before her, then turning down another, and once more until  Endymion finally stopped at a closed door. “Here we are,” he said,  his eyes twinkling as he gestured for Serena to crawl beneath the door —which she did with little hesitation, so curious had she become.

On the other side, she pulled herself to standing and gasped.

Endymion, beside her in an instant, folded his arms smugly over his  chest. “Now aren’t you glad I made you get out of bed?”

Speechless, Serena let her eyes roam over what surely must have been  the giant’s treasure room. On one massive table she saw gold coins the  size of her head piled up in neat stacks. In a corner was an open chest  overflowing in exotic silks and embroidered satins. A wall of  bookshelves appeared to be lined with anything but books—a gigantic  warrior’s helmet, pearl necklaces that undoubtedly came from monster- size oysters, a string of bronze and silver keys, three swords with  studded hilts, a huge peacock feather pen and crystal inkwell, and more  glittering and sparkling jewels than Serena’s eyes could take in at  once.

“Don’t forget to breathe.”

Immediately, Serena sucked in a huge breath and turned to Endymion with  awestruck eyes. “It’s amazing!” she whispered.

“I thought you would like it.”

“But… isn’t this dangerous? I mean, if there was any place where the  giant really wouldn’t want intruders to go, wouldn’t this be it?”

“Probably, but we should still be safe for awhile. There is one easy  way to find out, though. Come on, I have someone I want you to meet.”

“What? There’s someone alive here?”

“Well… kind of.” Endymion led Serena to the bottom of the bookshelf,  of which they could step onto the lowest shelf without ducking. Serena  watched as Endymion approached a giant blue handkerchief that was  draped over something oddly shaped and whisked it away.

Covering her mouth in surprise, Serena found herself blinking at a  woman. Or a harp. Or a gold woman attached to a gold harp, who was not  much taller than Serena, and even, she guessed, a hair shorter than  Endymion. Serena couldn’t be sure what shocked her the most: the fact  that she was staring at a woman who was half harp, or that the woman  seemed to be made of gold, or that the woman was of average size, or  that the woman was blinking back at her.

“Serena, meet Trista. Trista, this is Lady Serena.”

“How do you do?” Trista asked in a lilting, harmonic voice.

Gulping, and feeling silly for overreacting when Trista was staring at  her so calmly, Serena reached forward to shake a proffered hand. “It’ s lovely to meet you,” she responded shakily.

Everything on Trista seemed to be made of solid gold—from the flowing,  relatively soft-looking hair, half of which piled in a bun on top of  her head, the rest flowing down past her waist; to the light, gauzy  dress that reminded Serena of Greek goddesses; to her skin and lips and  fingernails. Her eyes, however, shifted from Serena to Endymion in a  deep, vibrant shade of purple. They looked like glittering jewels,  somewhere between rubies and amethysts

“Trista is a truth harp,” Endymion said as if the question had been  poised. “She can only speak the truth.” Turning to Trista, he asked,  “Trista, are we safe from the giant here?”

Trista did not pause to think, but immediately, with a few tangs of the  strings behind her, began to sing,

In his chamber
The giant sleeps.
For now you are safe
Where the treasure keeps.

“Told you so,” said Endymion, but Serena barely heard him, so  entranced was she by the sound of Trista’s fragile, humming voice as  the last notes of her harp hung quietly in the air.

“That was beautiful!”

Trista fluttered her eyes downward, as if in acknowledgment of the  praise, but did not seem at all embarrassed or even flattered.

“You can ask her anything, you know,” said Endymion.

“Why aren’t you giant-size, like everything else here?”

Trista answered, her strings strumming,

I was created by dwarfs,
As many magic treasures are,
But taken as plunder
In the Human-Giant War.

“There was a war between the humans and the giants?” Serena asked,  looking at Endymion this time, with surprise evident on her face. She  couldn’t help thinking that certainly the humans never would have  survived!

“It was about 6000 years ago,” Endymion said with a shrug. “Very  catastrophic, but almost forgotten by now. My history tutor talked  about it for a grand total of about twenty minutes.”

Serena nodded and turned back to Trista, who was watching them with an  unusual expression—something like fascination, but only because there  was nothing else in the room to be fascinated by, not because she truly  found them fascinating.

Thinking for a moment, Serena soon found it surprisingly difficult to  come up with worthwhile questions to ask. It seemed that she should  have been filled with them, but all of the questions she could think to  ask, she either already knew the answer to or wasn’t sure she wanted  to know.

A sudden thought hit her with a jolt and she blurted, “Can you answer  questions about my world too?”

The harp sang,

A truth is a truth
That crosses time and space.
My sight sees all,
Anywhere and any place.

“Then is my mother okay? Is she worried about me?”

Mothers will always worry
As is their given right.
But at least yours knows the truth
Of your disappearance that night.

“The truth? How on earth does my mother know the truth?”

The Master Grimm wrote a letter
Explaining your role in this land
And with the help of Puss in Boots
Delivered it to your mother’s hand.

Serena gawked disbelievingly at the harp, before exploding, “And she  believed it?”

Trista did not bother to answer the question, but rather blinked calmly  at the girl with a slightly tilted head—as if deeming the outburst  unworthy of a response.

Shaking her head, Serena began to pace along the shelf. “That doesn’t  make any sense! Why would my mother just accept such a radical story,  from someone she didn’t even know? That was given to her by a cat? Are  you sure you’re telling the truth?”

Trista raised an eyebrow, as if offended.

“Well, look at the bright side,” said Endymion—part honest, part  joking, “I suppose that means you can stay for a very long time, doesn ’t it?”

With a snort, Serena looked down at her feet, realizing suddenly how  much she missed her mother, and tried to imagine how she would feel if  the roles were reversed. If she came home from school one day to find a  letter saying her mother had been sucked into the world of fairy tales  and had to sort them out, which could take a few weeks or more, before  she was able to return. Well, short of being jealous, she probably  wouldn’t have believed it to begin with. She may have thought her  mother had gotten sick. She may have thought her mother had abandoned  her—like her father so many years before. But that theory wouldn’t  have lasted. Still, without evidence, it was unlikely she would have  taken the letter at face value, so how would her mother have? Surely  the harp must be mistaken, but if she could only speak the truth…

She sighed, her thoughts running in circles, and all boiling down to  one inescapable fact. She was homesick. While she was beginning to feel  as though she’d already lived a lifetime in this world, she couldn’t  help missing her true home.

Suddenly, Endymion was before her, his hands grasping hers. Gasping,  she looked up into his intensely blue eyes—more desperate and nervous  than she’d ever seen them.

“Take me with you,” he whispered.

Serena blinked, uncomprehendingly. “With me where?”

“Back to your world. I can see in your eyes that you’re going to go  back. I know you’re homesick, and though you’re loved and welcome  here, I understand you don’t feel like you really belong here. And you  have your mother to think about and I can’t blame you for wanting to  leave and I can’t ask you to stay, so… take me with you.”

Serena gaped at him, her body beginning to tremble. His hands were  gripping hers—tightly, but not painfully so—and his eyes looked so  frantic that she had an almost uncontrollable urge to wrap her arms  around him and comfort him.

Slowly, she shook her head and managed to stutter, “But Endymion… you ’re a prince. You belong here!”

He rolled his eyes, and Serena was relieved to see a hint of his  carefree smile returning. “How many princes does one kingdom need?  They’ll hardly even notice that I’m gone.”

Serena knew that wasn’t true, as did Endymion, but she didn’t bother  to point it out. Instead, she inhaled slowly and whispered, “But  Endymion… you have to marry Princess Briar Rose.”

A growl escaped him and he dropped her hands and spun away, pulling his  fingers harshly through his hair. The sudden movement sent Serena’s  mind roiling and she took an uncertain step back to steady herself.

“No, I don’t have to marry her!” Endymion screamed, and then turned  back to Serena, the intensity back in his stormy eyes. He licked his  lips and when he spoke again, his voice had become infinitely more  gentle. It felt like a caress on Serena’s ears. “Not if you ask me  not to.”

“What are you…?” she trailed off, feeling like she was drowning in  the turbulent emotions Endymion wasn’t even attempting to conceal. Her  mouth was dry. Her face was warm. Her heart was loud enough to  challenge thunder.

“Tell me not to marry Briar Rose,” Endymion continued, slowly,  confidently, inching toward Serena once again, “and I won’t. We’ll  run away—you and I. We’ll go back to your world.” He reached up a  hand and twirled a lock of her hair around his fingers, not breaking  the connection their gazes had forged. A delighted chill swept through  Serena’s nerves as he came ever closer, and she couldn’t move, couldn ’t breathe.

“Tell me not to marry Briar Rose…” His voice was so soft and  penetrating that Serena was swimming in it, drowning in it. “…and I’ ll run away and marry you instead.”

Serena couldn’t contain the nervous squeak that escaped her lips at  Endymion’s words. The impact of them left her feet plastered to the  floor and her body immovable, even as Endymion’s hands crept up to  caress the skin around her neck and ears. Even as his face neared hers  until she could feel his black bangs teasing her blonde ones and feel  his warm, quickening breath on her lips. It wasn’t until his long  eyelashes fluttered over his enchanting eyes did the spell on Serena  break and she pushed herself away and fell to the wood floor with a  grunt.

Looking up, she saw that Endymion looked baffled for a second, then  rejected for a moment longer, and then he smiled and chuckled his  favorite teasing laugh and offered her a hand which she did not take.

“Endymion, we can’t!”

“Yes, we can,” he said in a tone so convincing that Serena was  almost, well, convinced. Seeing that she was not going to be on her  feet any time soon, Endymion instead crouched before her, putting them  at eye level once again. “Serena, I know you feel this way too. You  must!”

She closed her eyes and turned her head down, knowing that she couldn’ t deny it, no matter how badly she wanted to. But she just felt like  there was something dreadfully important that she was forgetting.

Her eyes widened and she turned back to him again. “But you loved her  once!”

Endymion’s brow furrowed.

“Andrew saw it. There was a… a bond between you two! A soul mate,  destined love… bond!”

“What are you talking about?”

Serena sighed. “Right after Briar Rose was born, the day that you were  betrothed to her, there was a connection forged between you two.  Something powerful and magical! I don’t know what happened to it, but … but what if you’re really supposed to marry her? What if your  feelings for me are just because you’re afraid to get married?”

At first, Endymion had looked as if he was going to get angry at the  mention of his betrothal, but when Serena’s voice wavered at her last  question and her pale blue eyes began to fill up with tears, his  expression softened and he reached forward, tenderly running his finger  over her knuckles.

“Serena, I’m not afraid to get married, I just want to marry who I  want to marry. I don’t want you to think this is easy for me, or that  I’m going into this carelessly. I just know that I could never feel  for Briar Rose what I feel for you. You are the only girl in the world  that I can imagine as my wife.”

Her heart tripped over itself again at this proclamation and again  Serena was forced to turn away else she melt under his scorching gaze.  “But she’s a princess. She’s so much more graceful and prettier and  smarter and…”

She looked up as Endymion’s robust laughter penetrated her dejected  thoughts.

“Don’t do that, Serena! You’re… you’re… amazing! You make me  laugh! You make me feel… well, that’s it, you make me feel. Hope and  happiness and sometimes annoyance or even anger, but you always make me  feel something. And you make me… gods, you make me want you! Since  that first moment we met and you tackled me, it’s been painful not to  touch you. I know you think I’ve just been teasing you all the times I  was flirting but I promise it’s because I had no idea how else to get  close to you. I thought it was the only way… And maybe we haven’t  always agreed on stuff, even important stuff, but I have always been  floored by your courage and that insane idealism of yours. And I don’t  care what my kingdom wants, I don’t care what fate wants. I want you!  And you’re crazy if you think for a second that that vain, stuck-up  princess can make me happier in a hundred years of marriage than you do  by just existing!” Then, Endymion chuckled suddenly and jumped to his  feet, leaving Serena stunned and shaking as he turned back to Trista,  whose look of not-quite-fascination had changed to one of slightly more  intrigue.

“I’ll prove it! Trista, tell me, who would I be happiest with if I  married?”

Trista’s gaze shifted to his and she did not hesitate, her wine- colored eyes glittering serenely as she sang,

A love unmatched by time,
A love only fate knows,
Will in your future shine
Should you marry Briar Rose.

As the last notes of the harp faded away, a thick silence fell over the  trio—Endymion and Serena gawking at the harp with disbelief; she  stared back without emotion on her golden face.

Finally, Serena forced the crushing hopelessness in her heart to be  stomped down and replaced with an ironic pride and a tinge of  bitterness. So Andrew had been right after all.

“Well,” she said when she knew that she could speak without her voice  betraying the sudden breaking of her heart. “That answers that.”

Shaking his head, Endymion refused to look at her, his gaze perpetually  glued to Trista’s placid eyes. “It’s impossible,” he whispered to  no one in particular.

“In case you’d forgotten,” Serena responded, allowing some of the  bitterness to creep into her tone as she climbed to her feet, “she  always speaks the truth.”

“But… but she… but I don’t—”

Whatever protestations Endymion had been intent to give were  interrupted by a resounding thud that made the walls vibrate around  them.

Serena jumped, her eyes widening fearfully as Endymion spun toward the  closed door of the treasure room.

“What was that?”

Though the question hadn’t been specifically directed at her, Trista  immediately answered,

The biggest giant of them all
Has awaken from his slumber.
His footsteps coming down the hall
Make the sound of thunder.

Cursing, Endymion grabbed Serena’s hand and began sprinting toward the  door. Serena thought she heard Trista say, in a small and bored- sounding voice, “It was lovely to meet you,” but before she could  turn to repeat the kindness—if she even wanted to—Endymion pulled her  beneath the door.

They stayed on their stomachs for a moment while Endymion poked his  head into the hallway and, discovering it empty, jumped out onto the  thick carpet. He turned to pull Serena out as well, not that she really  needed the assistance, and soon they were running down the corridor.  Serena found herself immensely grateful that Endymion seemed to know  where they were going, because every hall looked exactly the same to  her and she knew they’d be lost in a heartbeat if she was the one  guiding them through the enormous labyrinthine castle.

They reached a fork in the passageway, with one corridor going left and  one going right. Endymion turned right, but as they rounded the corner  Serena sneaked a paranoid glance to the left, and the scream that left  her was as controllable as it was smart. It was quickly stifled by  Endymion’s firm hand, but too late as the giant, perhaps forty giant  strides from them, looked down with a look of surprise and eagerness.

“Hmm,” he said, the bass from his voice rumbling in Serena’s chest.  “I thought I smell human.”

Serena probably would have fainted on the spot if Endymion hadn’t  taken her hand again and pulled her down the hallway away from the  giant, who towered nearly fifty feet high. The adrenaline coursing  through her at least kept any terrified tears at bay, and Serena found  herself running faster than she’d ever run in her life, her breath  coming in short, frantic gasps. Endymion was a step in front of her,  puffing as well, as they bolted down the hallway. Then Serena saw what  Endymion had surely known was there—the rat hole. She didn’t know  that it had been possible to run faster, and yet the hopeful sight  urged her legs to do just that—along with a steady thudding along the  floor that alerted her that the giant was on the move now as well, and  closing the distance quickly.

Endymion reached the hole and dodged inside, and Serena took a huge  breath and dove—but she didn’t hit the cold, dusty floor like she’d  expected. Instead, she found herself being pulled up by the hood of her  cloak, her feet dangling toward the retreating ground.

“Oho, or maybe I smell rat?” the monster said, then laughed loudly at  his own joke as he lifted Serena up toward his face. She soon found  herself staring into huge brown eyes, half covered by long reddish- brown curls and thick eyebrows. She wanted to scream again but the  sound would not leave her. Panicking, she searched the floor, hoping  for any sign of Endymion, but he was nowhere to be seen.

Chapter 20: Straw Into Gold
He had the miller’s daughter brought into a room filled with straw and  said to her,
“You must spin all this into gold tonight. If you succeed, you shall  become my wife.”
from Rumpelstiltskin

“You make good midnight snack,” said the giant, poking Serena’s  abdomen with a pudgy finger.

Serena kicked and flailed, but the giant only laughed at her struggles,  leaving her feeling tired and helpless.

“Hmm, wish boy not get away. Then would have appetizer!” Chortling,  the giant turned back down the hallway and just as Serena’s eyes began  filling up with scared, desperate tears, the giant’s laughter turned  into a howl of pain and Serena felt herself falling.

She screamed as her cloak whipped around her and she fell nearly fifty  feet—right into the arms of Endymion. He grunted at the impact, but  looked otherwise unruffled. They took a moment to trade worried  glances, before Serena was on her feet again and they were bounding  toward the rat hole. They jumped over a discarded torch—which was  still burning beside the giant’s singed foot—and by the time the  giant had regained his senses, they were gone.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Mina and Queen Luna, who had been chatting with each other in the west  parlor, jumped to their feet when Serena and Endymion came sulking by  the door.

“There you are!” Luna cried, rushing into the hallway and stopping  the two before they could get any farther. “Where have you been? We’ ve been looking for you both all day!”

Endymion and Serena exchanged weary looks, before replying in unison,  “Don’t want to talk about it,” and returning back to their slow  retreat through the castle.

Frowning, Luna put both of her hands on her hips and analyzed the  appearance of her youngest son and her guest. They were both dripping  wet from the rain, with slightly disheveled clothes and boots that  squeaked on the tile floors. Endymion’s hair was matted to his  forehead and covered in what looked to be dust. Serena’s hair was  falling out of its twin ponytails and cluttered with a few random twigs  and leaves. Luna quirked an eyebrow, before charging in between the two  and putting a firm hand on Endymion’s chest. Though he stood nearly a  foot taller than her, it was obvious by her expression that she still  saw him as her little boy who would listen to his mother or pay the  consequences.

“Endymion!” she hissed, and Endymion eyed her with an irritated  frown. “Do you know—erm, pardon me, Lady Serena, but—do you know how  this looks? You can’t just go . . . gallivanting through the woods  with another pretty girl three days before your wedding! Now, I trust  you both and I’m sure nothing happened, but you are a prince of this  kingdom and you need to be mindful of appearances and—”

With a growl, Endymion pushed Luna’s hand away and stormed past her,  quickly disappearing into the nearest stairwell.

After the shock of being so firmly dismissed wore off, Luna turned to  see Serena, staring dejectedly down at her soaking feet. It only took a  moment for Luna to realize that the expression on Serena’s face could  not have been due to the cold and miserable weather. Biting back  another reprimand, she said quietly, “Lady Serena, where... what  happened?”

Serena shook her head, inhaled a long breath, and brushed past the  queen, choosing a different escape route than Endymion had on her way  up to her bedroom.

Luna considered following the girl—more due to her curiosity than  anything else—but was stopped by a kind hand on her shoulder. She  turned to see Mina behind her.

“Why don’t I go see what’s wrong, and you have some wine and  chocolates sent up to her room?”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena had taken off her dripping cloak with the fullest intention of  collapsing onto her bed and crying, but then she’d taken one look at  the pristine white- and gold-embroidered bedding, then glanced at her  dirty, dusty, smudged, and sopping wet reflection in the nearby mirror,  and simply couldn’t bring herself to do it.

And then she wasn’t sure what to do with herself, so she let the tears  come as she stood and buried her face in her hands and felt just that  much more wretched not having a warm, familiar, and simple bed to fall  into.

A knock sounded at the door and Serena screeched, “Go away!” and  immediately regretted her rashness. Certainly if it was a maid, the  rest of the servants would know by the morning what a temper their  special guest had. So she was slightly relieved when it was Princess  Mina who ignored her request and poked her head in anyway.

“Oh, come now. I know the look of a girl in need of girl talk when I  see one.” Inviting herself in, she took one look at Serena and calmly  tsked at the girl. Bustling over to an armoire, she pulled out the  warmest flannel nightgown she found and threw it on the bed, followed  by cozy slippers and a bathrobe. Then, bustling into the adjoined  bathroom, she returned with an armful of towels and threw those onto  the pile as well. “Okay, get dried up and changed,” she gently  commanded, before putting herself in front of the hearth and beginning  to stack up kindling for a fire.

It only took a minute for Serena to comply and take off her cold and  sticky clothes, rub the towel over her clammy skin and hair, and slip  into the sleepwear. Sitting on the plush bed and feeling a little bit  silly that she’d been so willing to drown in misery when comfort had  been so close by, she watched Mina stoke the embers into a steadily  burning flame.

“How do you know how to do that?”

Setting the fire poker against the mantle, Mina turned to face Serena  with a smile, dusting a few bits of charcoal from her hands. “Before I  was a princess, I was nothing more than a farmer’s daughter. I learned  to do a great many things that princesses don’t normally learn. And I ’m quite proud of it, too. I may have maids and servants now, but I  know that I could be perfectly self-sufficient if I ever needed to be. ”

Serena stiffened at another knock on the door, but Mina flew to it  without apprehension and admitted one of Serena’s personal  maidservants carrying a tray full of chocolate truffles, a basket  overflowing in assorted apples, berries, and exotic fruits, and a  crystal decanter of red wine.

Thanking the maid, Mina took the tray and set it down on Serena’s  nightstand, helping herself to a chocolate and pouring two glasses,  before sitting down and leaning against the headboard, allowing Serena  to get her own dessert—which she quickly did.

“So…” Mina said, swirling the wine around in her glass, “You don’t  have to tell me where you and Endymion were all day, but you do have to  tell me what’s bothering you. And don’t say ‘nothing’—I know there ’s something wrong and such an answer would sorely hurt my feelings.”

The chocolate in Serena’s mouth turned bitter and she swallowed it  painfully. She leaned back against the headboard and turned away from  the princess. She, of course, didn’t feel like she could tell Mina  about the issue that was causing her the most pain—that Endymion was,  in fact, destined to wed and love Princess Briar Rose—and besides, she  felt foolish for being so hurt by it. She should have known from the  beginning that the prince was meant for his betrothed. That’s how  fairy tales went. She shouldn’t have dared to hope, no matter how  sweet he was toward her, or how cold he was toward Briar Rose. Serena  forced herself to shake off the hope that came even with those  thoughts.

Finally, she turned her blue eyes back toward Mina and forced a sad  smile. “I guess I…” Her voice cracked and she chuckled a little at  her own immaturity, but Mina put an encouraging arm around her  shoulders and she continued, “I guess I’m just a little homesick.”

Sighing, Mina nodded as Serena blinked back tears and sniffles, swaying  gently and caressing the girl’s long hair.

“Tell me all about it.”

And so she did, even as tears began to fall. Serena told Mina about her  mother who was all alone in their house and, even though Trista the  harp claimed she’d been told about the land of Grimm, she must still  be desperately worried. And she told Mina about her friends at school  and her neighborhood and the awful school cafeteria and Melvin and her  favorite teachers and “even stupid Darien Shields.”

The princess said nothing until Serena’s crying slowly ebbed, then she  reached for a stack of tissues and Serena’s wine. “Don’t get it all  salty,” she commanded half-teasingly as she held the glass to Serena’ s lips.

With a slow sigh, Serena drank and felt the wine warm her from the  inside. After sniffling into the tissue, she devoured two more pieces  of chocolate, wiped her eyes, and suddenly found herself feeling worlds  better. She smiled up at Mina and hardly had to force it at all.  “Thanks.”

“Think nothing of it. Just my maternal instincts shining through,”  Mina said with a wink. “Now, why don’t you lie down and try to get  some beauty sleep?”

Sleeping Beauty…

Serena clenched her teeth and was glad that Mina didn’t notice her  awkward cringe. Nodding, she crawled beneath the covers as Mina went  around the room blowing out candles.

“Lady Serena, did you mother tell you stories before bedtime?”

“All the time when I was little. Why?”

Returning to Serena’s side, Mina sat down on the bed. “Would it make  you feel better if I told you one? I’ve gotten pretty good at them  since Cytherea was born.”

A tiny smile curled Serena’s lips. “I would love that, Mina.”

“Great! Then get comfortable and close your eyes.”

Serena did as she was told, relishing the feeling of the feather pillow  blooming up around her head and the weight of the bedspread surrounding  her in a warm and safe cocoon. When she found that spot that her body  fit into perfectly, she closed her eyes, wiggled her toes, and waited.

Soon, Mina began. “Once upon a time, there lived a farmer and his wife …”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
And they had three daughters who were all very beautiful. However, the  eldest was vain and stingy and the middle child was cruel and rude.  Only the youngest daughter grew up to be kind and compassionate.  Because of this, her sisters often took advantage of her generosity and  forced her to take on their chores, complaining of illnesses and  soreness they did not really have. And so, as the two elder sisters  grew more and more lazy, the youngest grew strong and toughened and  knowledgeable in the ways of the world. In this way, the two elder  sisters were able to devote hours and whole days to pampering  themselves—bathing in salt and sour milk, plastering their faces with  egg whites and oats, and leaving lemon in their hair on sunny  afternoons—while the youngest daughter became darkened by the sun and  woke up to calluses on her fingers and chipped and broken nails and  dirt that would not come off her face no matter how hard she scrubbed.

One day, the farmer’s wife became very ill and she called her three  daughters to her bedside. To the eldest, she gave a ring and necklace  made of gold. To the middle girl, she gave a ring and necklace made of  silver. And to the youngest, she gave a ring and necklace made of  copper. The next day she passed away. And though the youngest had  received the least valuable of the jewelry, she cherished it with all  her heart, while her sisters scoffed at the gifts because they were not  also encrusted with jewels.

There came a day when the two elder sisters decided to go into town to  shop and they invited the youngest sister to join them—for the purpose  of carrying their bags and boxes. While in town, the three stopped at  an eatery, one of the nicest in town. Though the sisters couldn’t  really afford to eat at such a nice place, the elder sisters justified  it by claiming that they would find a rich husband there, and surely a  rich husband would pay for any debt they had acquired.

The youngest daughter happily satisfied herself with bread and water  while her sisters gorged on meat pies and foreign ale, and while her  sisters chatted about fashion and parties, the youngest sister found  her eyes wandering among the crowd. She soon spotted a handsome man  chatting and drinking with friendly company. He had hair almost as long  as she had, that shone like a waterfall of silver despite his youthful  appearance. His jaw was well-defined and his build was tall with wide  shoulders. His eyes were pale blue like a clear sky in winter. Even  from across the room, his laughter resounded in the girl’s chest and  made her feel warm and content.

It was not long before her sisters noticed the girl’s distraction and  it was easy to discover what had so entranced her. Eager for a chance  to embarrass their youngest sister—and flirt with the handsome  gentleman and his comrades—the sisters approached the group, dragging  their horrified sister behind them.

When the men saw the girls coming, they were immediately taken by the  beauty of the two eldest girls, for they each had thick golden hair  pinned up with rhinestones and ribbons, and while their faces had  become pudgy, their skin was pale and flawless and they smelled like  bottled wildflowers.

The youngest sister went unnoticed, looking more like a servant to the  girls than a sister, with her long blonde hair dulled and full of  tangles and her lean body covered in soot from the fireplace and  bruises from her chores. She felt ashamed to be seen with her beautiful  sisters as they flirted coquettishly with the companions, and for the  first time in her life, she felt jealousy rise up in her to see the  silver-haired man smiling at the damsels.

It was not long before the men were joking about making the girls their  wives.

“But which one would you take?” one of the men asked with a  boisterous laugh.

“Which one is a better cook?” another teasingly answered.

The girls batted their eyelashes and drew their shoulders back to  enhance their breasts, and the eldest said, “I am a much better cook  than she!”

“But which is a better seamstress?”

The middle daughter giggled. “Why, I am a much better seamstress than  she!”

“But which can spin straw into gold?” It was the silver-haired man  that said this and sent all of his friends roiling with laughter at the  suggestion.

The two girls said nothing, confounded, before giggling along.

“I can!”

The laughter ceased abruptly and all eyes turned to the farmer’s  youngest daughter, who felt instantly silly and stupid for making such  a false claim. But the beautiful eyes of the silver-haired stranger  prompted her to hold her head as proudly as she could and finish, “I  can spin straw into gold, much better than either of my sisters.”

Most of the men chuckled at the girl’s show of character and their own  surprise at her relation to the pretty girls. But the silver-haired man  did not laugh, but rather tilted his head to the side and looked past  the dirt and ash and bruises and tangled hair and finally said, “If  this is true, then I shall make you my wife.”

Again, a hush fell, and the youngest daughter was sure her heart would  beat right out of her chest. She gulped, feeling the angry and jealous  eyes of her sisters burning into her as a blush crept up her cheeks.  She was about to confess that she had said it only to gain their  attention, when the man continued, “And as I am a prince of this  kingdom, you shall become a princess.”

The farmer’s daughter found that she could not protest, and so the  prince took her to his palace, leaving her sisters behind. There, he  led her to a small room, not much larger than a closet, with a spinning  wheel surrounded by fresh-smelling straw.

“All right,” said the prince, his pretty blue eyes full of mischief,  “If you can spin all this straw into gold by morning, I shall make you  my wife.”

The girl was about to confess her falsehood, but seeing the gaiety in  his eyes took the words out of her mouth. “Don’t you think I can?”  she asked, upset that the prince doubted her claim. For reasons she  couldn’t comprehend, she was insulted that he wouldn’t trust her.

“No,” the prince said with a friendly laugh, “I don’t think you  can.”

The girl drew her brow down.

“In fact, I think you made it up to get my attention.” He quirked a  thin silver eyebrow at her and a blush bloomed on her cheeks.

“And why would I want to get the attention of an arrogant prince like  you?” she spat.

“Arrogant?” the prince asked, taken aback by her harsh words, but the  girl ignored the hurt expression and stomped into the straw-filled  room.

“I will spin this straw into gold! Just you wait and see if I don’t! ”

The prince couldn’t help another grin tilting his lips at the girl’s  spirit. Shrugging, he mumbled, “Suit yourself,” and went to leave,  but the girl called him back.

“What…what will you do if I can’t?” she asked slowly, almost  fearfully. “You know, in case I can’t get it all done in time.”

His eyes softening, the prince tilted his head up as if thinking, then  finally answered, “Why, what any arrogant prince would do: have you  beheaded, of course.” With a wink that left the girl shaking, he  turned and left her alone in the room.

Soon, the girl collapsed onto a pile of straw and began to weep,  wondering what had come over her to defy the prince so hot-headedly.  She wondered if the prince would really have her beheaded, and while  she didn’t want to believe that he would be so cruel, she had also  never met a prince before and didn’t know how they normally reacted to  such lies as hers.

After hours of crying and feeling sorry for herself, the girl finally  stood and brushed off her straw- and dirt-covered rags, and thought, “ How silly I’ve been! We aren’t too far in the castle, and he didn’t  lock me in here. I’ll just leave and he’ll never know and he’ll get  a very big laugh out of it with his friends and I’ll get a very big  lashing for my behavior, but at least I’ll still have my head.”

With one last sigh—for the thought of never seeing the handsome prince  again made her almost as sad as the thought of dying the next day—she  started toward the hallway. However, she’d only gotten a few steps  when she heard a little voice behind her.

“Pretty damsel, pretty damsel, do not despair.”

She turned to see a short man with pointed ears and bells on his  brightly colored clothing standing in the middle of the straw.

“Who are you?” she asked.

“My name I cannot give, pretty damsel, but offer you my help I will.  This straw I will spin into gold for only a small price.”

“You can spin straw into gold?”

“I can, I can.”

The girl pursed her lips and thought a moment about the offer, but then  shook her head. “I have nothing to pay you with.”

“You do, you do. This straw I will spin into gold for only the ring on  your finger.”

Reflexively, the girl clutched the copper ring to her chest and shook  her head. “Absolutely not!” she said, before swiveling on her feet  and preparing to march away.

“Do you not want to be the prince’s bride?”

The girl’s feet stilled beneath her. So focused had she been on what  would happen if she didn’t spin the straw into gold, she had forgotten  about the other half of the bargain. She looked down at the ring, her  heart breaking at the mere thought of parting with it, but then she  imagined herself being wed to the prince, and her decision was made.  She quickly slipped the ring off her finger and handed it to the little  man, who sat down at the spinning wheel without hesitation and grabbed  up a clump of straw. With skill and patience, the man began turning the  wheel and threading the straw through, piece by piece, and the girl was  amazed to see the straw emerge from the wheel as a string of pure gold.

By the time morning came, all of the straw had been turned into yellow  gold, and the man disappeared in a puff of smoke even before the girl  could thank him. Hardly a breath of time later, the prince entered the  room with a smirk on his handsome face—which immediately faded to one  of astonishment to see the piles of gold at his feet. That look made  the girl forget the loss of her mother’s ring.

“Told you so,” the girl said, practically glowing as the prince  looked on her with awe.

“But… you couldn’t possibly have done this yourself!” he stuttered.

“Oh? And just why not?”

Laughing, the prince held his hands up defensively at her temper. “It ’s just… I didn’t think… How did you do this?”

“Well…that’s a secret!”

“Oh, really?”

“Yes, really.”

“Well, in that case, you certainly wouldn’t argue if I asked you to  spin some more?”

With that, he led her to another, larger room, filled with even more  straw. The girl’s jaw dropped.

“That is, of course, if you really spun all that straw before, like  you said.”

“I did spin that, and I can spin this too,” she said.

“Good. Then if you spin all of this straw into gold by tomorrow  morning, I will make you my wife.”

“But… but you said I only had to spin the straw in that first room to  be made your wife!” the girl argued, then silently chastised herself  for the desperation in her voice.

“Yes, but I have reason to believe that you didn’t really spin that  straw into gold, and I don’t want to marry a girl unless she really  can do what she says.”

After the prince left, the girl angrily sat down on a stack of hay and  waited, and waited, and waited. Her annoyance at the prince’s  haughtiness had just faded into a new bout of misery when she heard a  little voice.

“Pretty damsel, pretty damsel, do not despair. This straw will I spin  into gold for only a small price.”

Looking up, she saw the same little man with pointed ears standing  before her. On one thumb he wore her mother’s copper ring and it  looked dull beside his extravagant clothes.

“A small price? And what will it be this time?” the girl asked,  dreading the answer.

“This straw I will spin into gold for only the necklace on your neck. ”

The girl sighed and fingered the necklace, biting back her tears.  Because even before the man had made the request, she knew that she  would give him the necklace if he asked for it. Slowly, she reached  beneath her hair and undid the clasp. When she held it out, the little  man’s greedy fingers snatched it away. Then he sat down and began to  feed the straw through the wheel; his fingers worked so fast that the  girl hardly saw them move, and yet he never made a single mistake. At  one point the girl fell asleep, having become bored and weary, and when  she woke up it was morning, all the straw had been turned into gold,  and the little man was gone.

She sat up and stretched just as the prince came into the room. Again,  he looked surprised, though not nearly as much as he had the day  before. Letting out a loud laugh, he turned to the farmer’s daughter.  She met his grin with a smug face and folded her arms, daring him to  challenge her abilities again.

“Very impressive,” the prince drawled, drawing his fingers down over  his beardless chin.

“Any more complaints?” the girl asked.

“No… no complaints. Although, I do have some questions.”

“I won’t tell you how I do it!” the girl instantly spouted. “And I  won’t show you, either.”

Laughing, the prince shook his head. “Oh, no, no, I wouldn’t dare  intrude upon your secret. I’m just wondering… where is the ring you  were wearing two days ago?”

The girl gasped, clutching her hands to hide the offensively naked  fingers. “Well, I… I must have dropped it in the first room. It  probably slid off while I was spinning.”

“Ah… and what about…” He took a step closer to the girl and gently  tapped her collarbone. “…your necklace? Did that also slip off while  you were spinning?”

The girl felt an angry blush creep up her neck. “The clasp was faulty!  It was always falling off. I’m sure it’s probably buried somewhere  amongst all this gold that I spun for you!”

“I see. Well then, one more question, if you don’t mind. If you’ve  always had this ability of spinning straw into gold, why do you dress  in rags?”

Pursing her lips, the farmer’s daughter looked down at her clothes,  looking even more sodden now than they had when the prince had first  laid eyes on her. She found that she had no answer to give.

“I’ll make you a deal,” the prince whispered, leaning in so close to  the girl that she felt his long silver hair brushing against her  shoulder. “There is one more room of straw, even larger than this one.  If, in the morning, all of that straw has been likewise spun into gold,  I will make you my wife, regardless of whether or not you did the  spinning yourself.”

“I thought you wanted a wife who can really do what she says,” the  girl responded bitterly, making the prince chuckle a little at his own  words.

“Yes… but even more, I want a wife who isn’t afraid to say what she  wants.”

And so he took her to a third room, this one double the size of the  last and packed to the gills with straw. But before the prince could  leave the girl to her work, she stopped him and asked, “Why do you  have rooms full of straw in the first place? You obviously didn’t  believe you would ever find a girl who could spin it into gold, and yet  you seemed determined to find her.”

The prince grinned and took a long while thinking about his answer.  Finally, he raised his pale blue eyes to the girl and said, “Many  years ago I met a fairy godmother and she told me that I would one day  meet a girl who could spin straw into gold, and that I was to make this  girl my wife and love her until the day I die, and only with her could  I find happiness and peace.”

After the prince left, the girl sat down on the straw and thought about  what he said and wondered if the little man would show up. It was well  past midnight and she was beginning to feel tears welling up again,  when she heard the same voice.

“Pretty damsel, pretty damsel, do not despair. This straw will I spin  into gold for only a small price.”

Sadly, she shook her head at the little man and held out her empty  hands. “Thank you for helping me so far, but I have nothing more to  give you.”

A wicked grin grew on the little man’s lips and he appeared to be  thinking. “I see, I see. But I think one gift you can promise me now  and give to me later.”

The girl gasped and jumped to her feet, a sudden thought entering her  head. “Yes, you’re right! If I marry the prince I’ll become a  princess, then I can give you all the jewelry you want, even better  than the little copper pieces you wear now.” She gestured to the  necklace that hung around the man’s neck, but her sudden excitement  dulled when the man shook his head.

“No, pretty damsel, I have another request. Much more precious than  the jewels of a princess.”

“But what then?”

The little man’s eyes grew dark. “This straw I will spin into gold  for only your firstborn child.”

The farmer’s daughter gasped and reeled back, shaking her head. “No!  Absolutely not!”

“So be it,” the man said, spinning on a heel. “Then marry the prince  you will not.”

Her heart thudding painfully against her chest, the girl sought  anything else of value she would be able to offer the man, but could  think of nothing. Finally, she reasoned that she would surely not have  a child for a long while still, and the little man would have forgotten  all about her promise by the time she gave birth. And so, reluctantly,  she agreed to the terms, refusing to cry as she did so.

The man sat down at the spinning wheel and set to work, his smile  stretching from one pointed ear to the other.

While he worked, the girl sat down in a corner and tried to ignore the  sick feeling in her stomach. She desperately hoped that she was right  and that the man would forget about her promise. She tried to console  herself by thinking about her marriage to the handsome prince. But no  matter how she justified the bargain, she couldn’t shake the horrid  feeling it set in her.

And then, as morning drew nearer, another set of worries popped into  the girl’s mind, almost equally worrisome and even more pressing than  her deal with the little man, and these concerning the story that the  prince had told her about the fairy godmother. It occurred to her that  the fairy godmother had promised the prince peace and happiness with a  girl who could spin straw into gold, but, no matter how hard the girl  tried to make believe she could do so, there was no denying the fact  that she couldn’t. A sick feeling came to her again and she wondered  if, by marrying the prince under this falsehood, she would be  condemning him to a life of misery because he had not found his true  love.

These thoughts continued to plague the girl even as the little man  finished the last straw and disappeared with a cackle. A steady stream  of light was now pouring through a small window and, not a moment  later, footsteps were heard outside the room.

When the prince entered the room and scanned the piles of gold with his  eyes, his face broke into a huge grin and, without speaking a word, he  held out his arms toward the girl.

But she did not run to his embrace like she wanted to. Instead, she  stifled a sob and looked away.

Dropping his arms, the prince slowly neared her. “Why are you crying?  You’ve completed the final task. Surely, after all this, you will  become my wife?”

Shaking her head, the girl slowly looked up at the prince with glazed  eyes. “I didn’t spin it,” she admitted shakily. “I’m sorry for  deceiving you, but I can’t spin straw into gold. A little man did it  for me. I’m not… I’m not the girl that the fairy godmother told you  about. I’m sorry to have lied to you.”

She looked down and didn’t attempt to stop the tears as they crawled  down her cheeks. But it wasn’t long before she felt the prince’s  large hands on her face, brushing the tears away and forcing her to  look up at him.

“Yes, you are,” he breathed.

“No, I—”

“I know that you didn’t spin this straw into gold. I’ve known it all  along. You’re a very bad liar.” The girl felt her anger flare, but  the prince’s gentle smile discarded it just as quickly and he  continued, “I apologize for deceiving you, as well. The fairy  godmother did not tell me that I would meet a girl who could spin straw  into gold, only that I should offer the challenge to a girl, and only  the one who completed it determinedly, and in the end confessed her  shortcomings, was the one that I should marry and love until the day I  die.”

The girl’s jaw fell open in surprise and she found that, for the first  time since she’d met the prince, she truly had nothing to say.

“Now then,” he said, taking her silence as a good sign, “will you be  my wife?”

And the prince and the farmer’s daughter were married one week later,  and a little less than a year after that, the princess gave birth to a  beautiful baby girl. However, the day of the baby’s blessing ceremony,  the little man did return in order to claim the payment that the farmer ’s daughter had offered him. The girl refused to give the man her  daughter, though, and begged for a way to alter the promise she’d  given. The man said that he would return at sunset three evenings in a  row, and if she had not guessed his name by that third evening, she  would be forced to relinquish the baby girl. The first and second  evenings came and went and the princess guessed every name she could  think of, but none belonged to the little man. But then, on the third  day, a stranger showed up at the palace steps who knew the evil man’s  name, and by shouting the despised word, “Rumpelstiltskin,” the new  stranger sent the little man back to his sinister hovel, never to  bother any of the kingdom’s inhabitants or the royal family again.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Mina sighed, reaching forward to brush some of Serena’s bangs out of  her eyes. “And that is how we met you, our Chosen One.”

But Serena had fallen fast asleep.

Chapter 21: A Corset in the Mirror
Snow White stood in front of the old woman and let herself be laced
with the new staylace. However, the old woman laced her so quickly and
so tightly that Snow White lost her breath and fell down as if dead.
from Snow White

Serena woke up in a cold sweat.

She’d dreamt of Trista—the beautiful singing harp with hollow eyes  and serenely haunting voice who could only speak the truth. In the  dream, Trista had sung out a proclamation from her perch in the Giant’ s castle in the sky, and it rang throughout all of Aysel.

Let it be known that the silly foreign girl believed herself loved by a  prince! Let it be known the foreign girl ever deemed herself worthy!  Let it be known! Let it be known!

From the throne room, surrounded by all of the royal family and the  guardians and Princess Briar Rose who was dressed in fine brocaded  silk, Serena listened to the heralding with a painful sense of  humility. The royal family began to laugh and she looked down to find  herself clothed in rags similar to those Lita had been wearing when  they’d met. But Lita, too, was dressed in a beautiful gown now, and  she, too, was laughing. Spinning around, Serena tried to find solace in  Endymion’s tender blue eyes—surely he, of all people, would  understand? He had told her he loved her, after all. Had he made it all  up? Had it all been a lie?

She turned and turned but could not find Endymion for a long time in  the growing crowd full of laughter. The throne room was teeming with  servants and fairies, townspeople and witches. Even the reporters that  had followed Rumpelstiltskin through the wheat fields now surrounded  her, scribbling on their notepads and yelling interrogations at the  tops of their voices.

“Whatever made you think the youngest prince would love you? Did the  prince deceive you? Are you emotionally unbalanced? Did you seduce the  prince? Did you really befriend his fiancé, the beautiful Princess  Briar Rose, in an effort to lure her away from him?”

Shrinking away from the flashing camera bulbs, Serena desperately  looked for a way to escape their onslaught of questions. While  attempting to run from the mob, she felt the heel of the glass slipper  she was wearing shatter beneath her and she stumbled to her hands and  knees. Shaking, she reached forward blindly to find something to grab  onto, to help find purchase, and her hand met with thick silk. Gasping,  she looked up to find that she was clutching the skirt of Briar Rose,  asleep on the tile marble floor.

“Get away from her!” Andrew yelled in Serena’s ear and he and Seiya  each grabbed her by the arms and dragged her away. A moment later,  Endymion emerged from the crowd and she gasped hopefully. Surely he  would set everything straight! He had been there, with her and the  harp. He had said all those things!

But Endymion did not even look at her, but rather kneeled beside the  sleeping princess with his eyes, full of compassion and admiration,  concentrated on her porcelain face. Slowly, he leaned forward, closing  his blue eyes as his lips approached those of his betrothed.

When she awoke, sweat dampening her sheets, Serena took a moment to  calm her breathing and swipe away the wetness on her cheeks. It was  still dark out and she lit a candle beside her bed and, noticing the  remnants of the previous night’s snack, she gobbled up four truffles  and drank half a glass of red wine—cringing at its stagnant taste from  sitting so long in the open air, but finishing it off anyway. Sliding  from the bed, she found her bathrobe and slippers and sneaked quietly  into the hallway.

The castle seemed deserted and gloomy as she plodded her way down the  marble corridor. A few candle sconces flickered and crackled against  the walls, sending shadows dancing and swaying beneath Serena’s feet.  She hugged her arms to her body and forced herself into a near jog,  anxious to be out of the cold and dreary halls. Her slippered feet  padded softly on the stone and she kept starting and whisking around at  strange sounds, only to realize that it was her own breathing that had  frightened her. Finally, clenching her teeth, she took off in a dead  run, heedless that anyone might see her. After all, who would see her  running through the unmanned castle in the dead of night?

And so her logic held until she turned a corner and crashed into an  unsuspecting body. They both toppled backward, she squealing and  landing on her rump and her victim collapsing against a near wall.  Breathing hard, Serena pulled her hair from her face and looked up. She  was met with a glare so full of contempt that it frightened her more  than the initial collision.

“You!” she gasped, scooting away.

The old man regained his balance with the aid of a walking stick and  leveled his furious stare on Serena. She remembered him clearly from  her first day in Aysel, from the first moments she’d arrived there. He  was the same cranky old man from the cottage in the wheat fields: the  Lord Grimm. And she somehow doubted he had stopped scowling for an  instant since she’d seen him last. “What are you doing in this  hallway?” he snarled.

Furious at his temper, Serena shot to her feet, straightened her  disheveled robe, and fisted her hands on her hips. “I happen to be a  guest here, for your information. And I could very well ask the same  thing about you, you know.”

The man tossed his shoulders back and squinted his dark eyes at her. “ This whole world belongs to me. I can go where I please.”

She was about to retort when a strangled cry was heard not far down the  hallway. Glancing over the man’s shoulder, Serena worriedly looked  toward the sound, muttering, “What was that?”

Ignoring her question, the Lord Grimm grabbed Serena harshly by the  wrist and attempted to drag her down the other corridor. “It is not  safe here,” he hissed. “You must leave!”

But while his grip was strong, Serena and her will were stronger.  Growling, she pried the man’s fingers off of her and ran toward the  sound—suddenly sure which door it had come from: the door to Snow  White’s room.

“Raye?” she called, pounding on the door. But her instincts could not  wait and in a moment she’d barged in, grateful that the door was  unlocked. Storming into the room, she called again, “Raye?”

Instantly her eyes fell upon Raye’s crumpled form on the floor, her  black hair spread out on the carpet, her pale arms reaching toward the  vanity as if trying to grasp at something invisible on the floor.

Screaming, Serena ran to the princess and fell to her knees, shaking  the girl and repeating her name. She barely noticed when the Lord Grimm  brushed past her, tearing a blanket from the bed and tossing it over  the vanity’s black mirror.

“Raye, are you all right? Raye, wake up!” Serena cried, searching her  pale throat for a pulse and finding it only faintly. Cursing, Serena  muttered, “She isn’t breathing. Quick, call for help!” It was then  that she noticed the corset Raye was wearing—a lovely satin and  taffeta bodice in the palest of pinks, with black lace displaying the  boning that ran down her ribcage and black velvet ribbon lacing it up  her back.

Her eyes widening, Serena reached for the ribbon, knowing in an instant  that it was responsible for Raye’s lack of breath—the corset was  suffocating her. Her fingers gripped at the ribbon and she pulled and  yanked at the knots, but it seemed that everything she did only forced  the bodice tighter. Raye’s pale face was beginning to take on a bluish  tint and Serena prayed that it was only because of the moonlight  through the window as she struggled to untie the girl. With fearful  tears steaming down her cheeks and a cry of anguish, Serena bent over  Raye’s back and desperately tore at the ribbon with her teeth, gnawing  and clawing at it until, finally, she felt one of the ribbons snap.  Gasping for the air she hadn’t realized she’d been holding, she took  hold of each side of the corset where the ribbon had broken and began  pulling them apart, millimeter by millimeter, working the ribbon  through the grommets until finally she was able to pull the last of the  ribbon through and the corset burst open from the released pressure,  showing deep creases in Raye’s back where the boning had been pressing  into the skin.

“Raye! Raye, breathe!” Serena sobbed, turning Raye onto her back.

At her command, Raye’s ruby red lips parted and she sucked in a great  rush of air. She coughed and a few drops of thick blood appeared on her  lips, then she lay panting with her eyes closed and her hair tangled  around her neck and shoulders.

Ignoring the tears that wouldn’t stop, Serena used the sleeve of her  bathrobe to wipe away the blood, then pulled Raye into a gentle hug,  crying into her neck.

“What’s going on here?”

Serena gasped at the sudden intrusion and raised her eyes to see a  blonde-haired stranger lurking in the doorway.

“Who are you?”

Ignoring her question, the man lowered his eyes to Raye, and instantly  rushed forward. “What happened?” he asked, kneeling on her other side  and gingerly checking for a pulse.

“I’m not sure. She was attacked, with the corset. Someone tried to  suffocate her. Through the mirror, I think.”

The man’s steely blue eyes turned their scrutiny from Raye to Serena.  “The mirror?”

Gulping, Serena slowly nodded. With a furrowed brow, the man glanced  over her shoulder at the vanity, his eyes sweeping over the blanket- draped mirror and briefly acknowledging the old man who stood glowering  against a wall, before looking down at Raye again.

“I see,” he murmured unhappily and scooped one arm beneath Raye’s  neck, checking the skin around her throat and down her sternum—for  what, Serena wasn’t sure, but she did notice the unlaced corset  beginning to slide away from Raye’s chest. Instinctively, she whipped  off her robe and threw it over Raye, tucking it around her shoulders.  For as much as she could tell, the man didn’t even notice.

Finished with his administrations, the man set Raye’s head back down  on the floor and cupped her face in his hands, gently stroking his  thumbs along her cheeks. “Lady Raye, you’re going to be all right  now. Open your eyes.”

And, to Serena’s surprise, she listened. Her long eyelashes began to  flutter and her lips pursed together for a moment, before she licked  them and released a pained sigh and opened her violet eyes. An  overwhelming sense of relief flooded through Serena at seeing Raye’s  gaze lively and full of wonder—but the emotion was quickly replaced  with the odd sensation of being an outsider looking in. Raye looked up  into the man’s turbulent eyes and slowly inhaled through parted lips.  She blinked slowly, dreamily, and let her eyes drift over the man’s  defined cheekbones and square jaw and short, well-kept blonde hair.

Sitting back on her heels, Serena felt her brow drawing down of its own  accord. She noted how the man still kneeled with his face scarce inches  above the princess’s and his fingers lightly stroking her temples. It  was glaringly obvious. They looked picture perfect. In fact, they  looked just like the watercolor illustration of the prince after he has  kissed Snow White back to life that marked the end of their tale in  Serena’s book of Grimm’s tales.

But for some reason, the sight made her queasy. Because if this  stranger was Raye’s prince, then what about—

“Raye!”

Startled, Serena jumped and looked up to see Jadeite rushing into the  room.

Tearing her eyes away from the stranger, Raye looked up at the prince  and quietly mumbled his name, sounding as though she’d just awoken  from a lovely dream.

“Raye, what happened?” Jadeite asked, kneeling beside Serena and  reaching for Raye’s hand. In response to his arrival, the stranger  stood up and hooked his thumbs through his belt loops, scanning the  room even as the three guardians appeared together at the door.

Raye sat up, holding the bathrobe to her chest and welcoming the  support that Jadeite’s hand offered. “My stepmother was here.”

“Here?”

“Well… there,” she said, pointing at the hidden mirror.

“What were you doing with an unmasked mirror in your room like that?”  Hota asked crossly, flying to the vanity and checking that the blanket  there was firmly in place.

Raye lowered her eyes and shook her head. “It was veiled when I went  to bed last night. I’m sure of it.”

A hush drifted over the room and the prince gently urged Raye to stand,  supporting her around the shoulders, though she seemed too distracted  to notice his presence.

“Thank goodness you’re all right,” said Andrew.

“Thanks to Serena,” Raye said, her eyes flickering to her friend,  “and…” She tilted her head and peered up at the blonde stranger  through her messy black bangs.

Clearing his throat, the man puffed out his chest and acknowledged,  “Alex.”

“Alex?” Serena exploded, before clasping a hand over her mouth as  Alex turned to her with a raised eyebrow. Clearing her throat as a  blush crept up her neck, Serena stuttered, “I mean… it’s just… you  don’t mean to say that you’re Alex of… Princess Briar Rose’s guard,  do you?”

“The same, mi’lady. I was unaware that my name had entered into the  social circle of Aysel.”

Serena glanced at Andrew and, grateful that he seemed just as surprised  as she, turned back with a weak smile. “Oh, the princess just… was  telling me about her excellent… guards… earlier. The other day. At  the ball.”

Nodding curtly, Alex turned his focus to Raye, who had not taken her  eyes from him as he spoke. “How are you feeling, mi’lady?”

“Better. Thank you,” she whispered, taking her hand out of Jadeite’s  grasp to tighten her grip on the bathrobe for modesty.

“It was lucky you found her in time,” Andrew noted, his eyes watching  Alex with a hint of skepticism. “How did you know she was in trouble? ”

Alex coolly turned his gaze on Serena. “I was patrolling the hall a  few corridors away and heard this lady crying.”

“Serena, how did you know?” asked Hota.

“I heard her collapse.”

“All the way from your room?”

“Oh, no, I was… I’d been in the hallway…” she gestured toward the  door, then gasped, and spun around. “And he was there too!” She  pointed at the Lord Grimm, who had been securely hidden amongst the  shadows in the corner, but now strode out into the moonlight. Everyone  in the room gasped, except Seiya who only widened his eyes in mute  surprise, and Serena who soon found herself looking around at  peculiarly stunned faces.

“Lord Grimm!” Andrew breathed in astonishment, before dipping into a  low bow. His show of respect was mimicked by the others, Raye falling  into an awkward curtsy as her undressed state made her blush for the  first time.

Serena couldn’t help feeling a bit annoyed.

“What an honor to see you, Lord Grimm,” said Hota. “What brings you  to the castle?”

His cool black eyes swept from the fairy to Serena, before alighting on  Raye. “I had suspicions that trouble would be about.”

Raye’s eyes widened, glossy with unshed tears, and she quietly  whispered, “Thank you for coming to my rescue, Lord Grimm.”

Furrowing her brow, Serena quickly shook her head, before placing  defiant fists on her hips. “Hey, he wasn’t coming here. He was  walking the other way! He was trying to get me to go the other way!”

There was only a moment of silence, before Andrew chuckled. “Obviously  the Lord Grimm had a plan in mind, and now everything has worked out  fine. Perhaps we should all go and let Lady Snow White have some rest,  before we wake up the rest of the castle?”

Raye folded her arms snugly over the robe and let her eyes drift around  the room, finally landing on Alex, who seemed very intent not to return  the gaze. With a near-inaudible sigh, she let her gaze fall. “Thank  you again, everyone. I’m sure I’ll be fine now.”

“I will add this hallway to my standard patrol route,” Alex said, his  blue eyes turning toward the open doorway.

“And I’ll have extra guards put on duty right away,” added Jadeite.

Soon, the crowd had shuffled into the hallway, Raye thanking them all  again before dazedly shutting the door. The Lord Grimm was the first to  leave—or more to flee, Serena suspiciously noted as he scurried away  into a dark hallway without a backward glance—and Alex also, without  an adieu, swept away toward Briar Rose’s room, leaving Serena alone  with Jadeite and the three guardians.

They were peculiarly silent as they began meandering back toward their  own quarters, before Jadeite murmured, “I thought she would be safe  from her stepmother here. I thought that here she would be protected.  With the guards, the dwarfs… with me just down the hallway…”

“There was nothing you could have done,” Serena awkwardly reassured  him. “Queen Beryl must have somehow discovered where she was, and then … found the right mirror.”

“Of all the mirrors in the castle,” Seiya mused.

“Seiya has a point. How could the queen have known which mirror to  look through? And why wasn’t it covered up?” asked Hota, to which no  one had an answer.

“I believe Raye when she says that it had been covered before she fell  asleep,” said Serena. “But then… how?”

“And how did the queen know that Snow White was here in the first  place?” added Andrew. “I understand that news travels fast, but it’s  only been a couple of days! And besides, there weren’t any  representatives from Cashlin at the wedding.”

“Perhaps…”

Serena turned to face Jadeite, who had hesitated with a worried face.

“What is it?” she asked.

Sighing, Jadeite lowered his eyes. “I don’t like to think such a  thing is possible in my own home, but perhaps there is a traitor in our  midst. An accomplice to Queen Beryl, and an enemy to Raye.”

The procession stopped in the hallway as Jadeite’s words sunk in, and  they could all see how plausible such an option was.

“But who?” Hota was the first to ask the question on all of their  minds.

Serena gasped and clenched her fists. “Lord Grimm!”

“Lady Serena!” Andrew instantly reprimanded, to a chorus of gasps.

“What?” she asked in irritation. “Think about it! He was sneaking  around her hallway when it happened, he tried to get me to go the other  way when I heard her collapse, and he ran away as soon he could! He has  guilt written all over him!”

“Enough!” yelled Hota, fluttering before Serena with hands on her  hips. “I will not tolerate such blasphemy in my presence!”

Blinking in disbelief, Serena turned toward Andrew, who had always been  a beacon of support, to find him staring at the ground with pursed  lips, shaking his head. She turned back to the fairy.

“Look, I know everyone here puts him up on some sort of pedestal, but  you have to understand that he is from my world, and people from my  world are very prone to corruption, and—”

“Lady Serena,” Jadeite sternly interrupted, before taking a long,  calming breath and focusing his suddenly furious blue eyes on her. “I  will forgive you your ignorance, but these accusations must stop. Lord  Grimm is a savior and a beacon to me and my people. He would never wish  harm to any of us. His infinite kindness and wisdom have often been the  glue holding our world together. If you speak badly of him again, I  will be forced to determine a just punishment.”

Serena found that she couldn’t lift her slacken jaw, and a cold shiver  crept up her spine from the livid look Jadeite had focused upon her.  Finally, she was forced to look away. She gulped and wet her lips, but  said nothing more, distrustful of her own voice.

“Besides,” Seiya interjected into the uncomfortable silence, his  voice full of the slow drawl he always had, “Lord Grimm was not the  only one ‘sneaking’ around her hallway when the attack occurred.”

Her eyes widening, Serena turned to the black-haired guardian.

“Wait… you don’t think that I would—”

“No one is accusing you of anything,” Andrew said, though his quiet  voice didn’t sound terribly comforting. “But Seiya does have a point.  If we were to begin throwing accusations around…” His green eyes met  hers, and Serena soon found angry blood pulsing against her temples.  She dug her nails into her palms to keep from spilling frustrated  tears. “After all, Lady Serena, you were the first to find her.”

“And being a stranger from another land,” mused Hota. “You yourself  said that people from your world are prone to corruption.”

“Hey, you’re the ones who keep calling me the Chosen One! And do you  really think I’ve been here long enough to be corrupted?”

Ignoring her question, Seiya asked, “How did you find her, anyway?”

“I told you, I heard her when she hit the ground!”

“Yes, but you didn’t tell us what you were doing in the hallway to  begin with.”

Inhaling shakily, it took Serena a moment to stretch her memory back to  that moment that now seemed so long ago. “I’d had a nightmare. I was … I was going to the kitchen, to get a drink of water. To clear my  head. And might I remind everyone here that if I hadn’t been there,  Raye would be dead right now! I can’t believe you think that I had  something to do with this.”

“Now, now, no one is saying that,” said Jadeite, running a hand  through his blonde hair.

“That’s not what I’m hearing.”

“Prince Jadeite is right,” Andrew said, his kind voice and gentle  smile returning. “We’re just pointing out how easy it could be for  someone to jump to this conclusion, especially someone who didn’t know  you as well as we do.”

In response, Serena swept a bitter glare over the three guardians. “I ’m innocent. Not only that, but I saved her life.”

“Of course, of course, and we’re all immensely grateful!” agreed  Andrew, but even his charming smile and twinkling eyes couldn’t help  Serena release her built-up resentment. “But perhaps, for your own  safety, you should… eh… stay out of trouble for a few days.”

“Trouble? It isn’t exactly like I’ve been out looking for trouble,  you know!”

“Oh, I do know. That isn’t what I meant, mi’lady.”

“Andrew may be right,” Jadeite mused. “There’s bound to be a lot of  gossip going around about this, and it will be easy for uninvolved  parties to point fingers. Maybe it will be best for you to… to…”

“Hide in my room until it all blows over?” Serena seethed.

“Exactly!”

Huffing, Serena threw up her hands. “Gladly!” she screamed, before  storming off toward her bedroom
Chapter 22: The Storytellers
After a year had passed the king took himself another wife.
She was a beautiful woman, but proud and haughty, and she could
not bear that anyone else should surpass her in beauty.
from Snow White

Serena furiously paced the floor of her bedroom, unconcerned if she  wore a hole through the carpet. How dare the guardians accuse her of  attacking Raye? How dare anyone think for even a moment that she could  be aiding evil Queen Beryl? The thought was absurd and had kept her  blood at boiling point for over an hour, despite her throwing pillows  against the walls and screaming into her mattress and stomping up and  down the length of the room to try and let out some aggression.

So all right, she mused, maybe they hadn’t outright accused her. Maybe  the guardians and Prince Jadeite really did have her best interests,  her own safety, in mind. If she stepped back and tried to look at the  scenario from an outsider’s perspective, she could see how rash  conclusions could be reached. Sure, she was the outsider—the  foreigner. Sure, she’d only been in the kingdom for, what, two weeks  now? Sure, she had been “sneaking” around Raye’s hallway at the time  of the attack. And sure, she had been found hovering over her  afterward.

But there was no motive! She adored Raye! She would never think of  doing her any harm, or anyone in this kingdom for that matter.

Except maybe that creepy, cranky Lord Grimm. She wouldn’t mind giving  him a swift kick in the rear after the way he’d treated her—without  even a speck of kindness or respect.

And speaking of Lord Grimm, she could not understand everyone’s  idolatry of him! So he wrote stories. Big deal. Was he responsible for  their existence, their livelihood, their health, their happily ever  afters?

Well, come to think of it, he might be. Despite all that she’d read  about the history of Aysel, and what the guardians had told her, she  really didn’t know much about this world. When it came down to the  nuts and bolts of it, she was clueless. Talking wolves, solid clouds  that open up into a different world, and tears that cure blindness were  all proof that the normal laws of science did not apply. So how did  Lord Grimm fit into the whole picture?

And what about Lord Grimm the First, the old man who lived on Thornrose  Lane, in her own world? She knew they were brothers—despite their  personality differences, they looked very much alike.

Serena groaned, collapsing onto her bed. No matter how much she thought  about it, her mind just kept running in circles. Something was off,  something was wrong, but she didn’t know what and her limited  knowledge of Aysel and the rest of the fairy-tale world was getting her  nowhere.

Still, regardless of what the guardians and everyone else thought of  their beloved Lord Grimm, Serena had him pegged as guilty. They were  all blind and ignorant, while se was the unbiased third party in this  scenario, and she could recognize a man plagued by guilt when she saw  one. All she needed to do was prove it.

First she needed a motive.

Which brought her to the other question she could think of no answer  to: Why would Lord Grimm want to kill Raye?

She lay sprawled on her coverlet, staring up at the bed’s canopy as  those words rolled around in her head. It wasn’t long before  exhaustion and anger blurred the words incoherently. Finally, she let  out a long sigh and closed her eyes, knowing that she would never be  able to pinpoint Grimm’s motives in this state of mind. Besides, she  soon realized, she didn’t know nearly enough about the man. All she  did know was what she’d read about him and his brother—they were  lawyers made famous by traveling all over Germany in search of passed- down stories, pulling them together into the first printed compilation  of fairy tales. But now, in this world of their creation (or  discovery?) she wasn’t even sure that method of how they had collected  their stories was true.

She knew that she would have to learn more about the cranky old man if  she was going to get to the bottom of this.

A knock that normally would have seemed gentle and quiet startled  Serena into bolting upright in bed. She sat there, still and gasping  for a moment, listening for the knock again. The gray light coming  through her sheers confirmed that she had fallen asleep, though not for  long. She held her breath and listened for rain, but it had stopped.

The knock came again, more urgent this time, and Serena slid off her  bed, fidgeting with her pajamas as she neared the door.

Raye was on the other side, her violet eyes wide and her skin just as  porcelain-pale as always.

“Raye! What’s wrong? Did something else happen?”

“No, no, nothing else. I’m sorry; did I wake you?” she asked in a  rushed breath, not looking the least bit apologetic, but Serena didn’t  mind.

“Don’t worry about it. Come in! What are you doing here?”

“I couldn’t sleep. I haven’t been able to sleep all night,” she  answered as Serena shut the door. “I guess I’m still a bit shaken.  And I wanted to see you. I realized that I didn’t thank you properly  last night, so much was going on, what with Lord Grimm and… and that…  guard…”

“Alex?” Serena asked, her voice dry.

“Mmm, Alex,” Raye said noncommittally. “Can I have one of those?”  She gestured to the tray of picked-over chocolates still sitting on  Serena’s nightstand that Mina had brought the previous evening.  Without waiting for Serena’s reply, though, she reached for a truffle  and popped it whole into her mouth.

“Raye, are you all right? You seem… frazzled.”

Lowering her eyes, the once-princess sunk into a chair beside the  window and swallowed the treat, almost painfully, before looking at  Serena again.

“Had you met this Alex before last night?”

Serena shook her head and sat on the edge of her bed. “No, it was the  first time I’d met him.”

“Really? But you seemed so familiar with him. When he introduced  himself, that is.”

“I’d heard of him. I met Princess Briar Rose at the wedding, and she ’d mentioned him to me.”

“What did she say?”

Raye’s poorly-hidden eagerness made Serena feel awkward and she had to  search her memory for what, exactly, the princess had told her. All she  seemed to remember was the princess’s claim of loving the guard.

“Not much. She told me that… he’s brave and strong, but I would  guess all royal guards are. Oh, and that he’s a huntsman by trade. But  that was about all. Why do you ask?”

Leaning back in the chair, her raven hair falling loosely over her  shoulders, Raye let out a long sigh and stared dreamily at nothing.  “Just curious, I suppose. I just… I find myself wanting to know  everything there is to know about him.”

Serena felt her stomach twisting at Raye’s distant, whimsical smile.  She thought of Princess Briar Rose, pining over this huntsman, who had  the same expression as Raye when she spoke of him. And she thought of  Jadeite, whose eyes followed Raye across a room like they were watching  winter melt into spring.

“If you hear anything more about him, will you tell me?”

Snapped from her reverie, Serena met Raye’s intense gaze. “What do  you want to know?”

“I don’t know,” Raye said with a sudden laugh. “I have no idea.  Just… something. Anything at all. Will you tell me?”

“Sure, but he isn’t going to be here for very long.”

“Oh? Where is he going?”

“Well… after Briar Rose’s birthday I assume they’ll all return to  Obelia. The princess and her guard and…” The words trailed off and  only Raye’s confused gaze prompted her to finish, “…and Endymion.”

Comprehension filled her eyes and Raye began fiddling with the cuff of  her robe’s sleeve. “Of course, Prince Endymion. So much has happened  the last few days I keep forgetting that the two of them are betrothed  and that there is to be yet another wedding.”

“Yes, it seems rather easy to forget,” Serena responded sourly. Their  eyes met again and Serena could see infinite sympathy and understanding  mirrored in Raye’s eyes, forcing her to look away.

“You feel something for Endymion,” Raye murmured.

“No,” Serena instantly spat, then regretted the harsh tone and  reached for a piece of chocolate to erase the word from her mouth, but  it only left a chalky texture and stuck in her throat when she  swallowed it. “I don’t know,” she amended quietly, looking up at  Raye and cursing the tears that were pooling in her eyes. “I don’t  know what I feel.”

Raye was beside her in an instant, wrapping her lithe arms around the  blonde’s shoulders. “You saved my life, Lady Serena,” she whispered.  “I’ll do anything in my power to help you. Anything at all.”

Serena forced a smile and found that it came easier than she’d  expected. “When I come up with something, you’ll be the first to  know.”

Returning the grin, Raye pulled Serena into a hug, then laughed. “I  seem to find myself indebted to a lot of people these days.”

With a shake of her head, Serena leaned back. “No, you owe me nothing.  I did what I had to, and I know you would have done the same for me.”

“It’s true,” Raye immediately agreed with a solid nod. “But I would  still do anything to repay you.”

“Your friendship is enough. Trusting me, and believing me… that’s  enough.”

“Serena, you have innocent and trustworthy hanging over you like a  halo. Who would ever not believe a word from your mouth?”

Serena muttered, “You might be surprised.”

“What do you mean?”

Another knock on the door stopped Serena from telling her about the  guardian’s not-quite accusations. “Come in,” Serena beckoned, and  the door opened to reveal three excited and relieved princesses.

“Raye, are you all right?” Amy was the first to ask, practically  running to the bed and throwing her arms around Raye’s neck.

“Jadeite filled us in on everything,” Mina said. “Well, actually, he  told his brothers and they told us… and I heard some maids talking  about it earlier, and a servant mentioned it over breakfast and… well,  really, I think the whole castle must have heard the story by now.”

“What Mina is trying to say,” Lita said, helping herself to a  chocolate truffle, “is that we were all so worried about you when we  heard. How are you feeling?”

“Fine, fine,” Raye said, squeezing Amy comfortingly and brushing  their worries off with a wave of her hand. “No harm done, excepting a  rattling to my nerves. Lady Serena rescued me.”

“Yes, we heard that too,” Amy said, taking Serena’s hand with a  smile that quickly fell to a frown. “Serena, have you been crying?”

“It’s nothing, nothing!” Serena said, plastering on a smile. “I  think my nerves are shot from all that’s happened.”

“Who could blame you?” Mina asked. “To think that Queen Beryl was in  my home…. It gives me the creeps.”

“And to think it was my idea you come to the castle, Raye,” Amy said.  “If I’d known this would happen I never would have dreamed of asking  you to be a bridesmaid.”

“Don’t you dare blame yourself for this,” Raye interjected. “I’ve  come to believe that there are few—if any—places that are safe from  my stepmother. Even my cottage in the woods wasn’t as secure as I  thought it was.” She glanced at Serena, who shuddered visibly at the  remembrance of the dark well of water, the feel of sharp nails against  her scalp and warm blood matting her hair.

“Stepmother?” the princesses asked in unison.

Clapping a hand over her mouth, Raye looked down, embarrassed at her  slip. But she quickly recovered and inhaled a long breath, meeting  their stunned gazes in turn. “Yes. Queen Beryl is my stepmother.”

“But… that would make you…”

“Of course. Zoicite said you were introduced to him as Snow White. You ’re the Princess Snow White!” Mina said, her mouth open with shock.  “Raye, why didn’t you tell me earlier? If I’d known, I would have  been sure to double, triple the security near your quarters!”

Raye waved the suggestion away. “Please, that is exactly what I wanted  to avoid. I’m no longer a princess, and I do not wish to be treated  like one.”

“It isn’t about a title, Raye. It’s about us caring about you, and  wanting you to be safe. You are my guest, and my friend. If you’re in  danger, you need to tell me, otherwise how will I be able to protect  you?” Mina said in an uncharacteristically stern tone.

“I second that,” added Lita. “While I know that us girls who have  had to work for our livelihood are by no means helpless, you need to  know when you can’t do it all by yourself. You need to know when to  ask for help, and who to ask.”

“And we are who you ask,” included Amy.

Suddenly shy with an onslaught of emotion, Raye managed to whisper,  “Thank you. I… I will not forget this kindness.”

“It isn’t kindness. It’s friendship. And this goes for you, too,”  Lita said, jabbing a finger in Serena’s shoulder.

“What? Me? What did I do?”

“I’m not sure yet, but you’re definitely hiding something. Smiling  and giggling to yourself one day and crying the next? Not to mention  your disappearance with that prince all day yesterday.”

“And coming home soaking wet and covered in mud and looking beyond  miserable. There’s something between you two, isn’t there?”

Serena forcefully shook her head. “You’re all imagining things. I’m  trying to help his romance with Briar Rose along. They are engaged,  after all.”

“If they’re already engaged, then why does their romance need  helping?” Amy asked in that smart and shy manner of hers, and Serena  lowered her eyes, afraid to answer.

“I get weird vibes from the two of them,” Lita spoke up. “When they  were dancing at the reception the other night, there was something odd  about it. They both appeared so… distant.”

“That’s what I thought, too,” admonished Raye, glancing at Serena.  “But I saw something very different when he danced with you.”

“I don’t want to talk about this any more!” Serena practically  screamed. “He is betrothed to the princess. They are going to get  married and he will become King of Obelia and they will be happy  together! I know it… for a fact.”

The girls exchanged glances, but stayed silent. After all, despite the  lack of evidence of romance between Endymion and Briar Rose, they knew  that a betrothal from birth was a guarantee for true love. The  guardians, and Lord Grimm, always made sure of that.

After a bout of awkward silence, Amy quietly asked, “What was Lord  Grimm like?”

“That’s right!” said Mina with a gasp, excitedly taking Raye’s  hands into her own. “We heard that he came to your rescue!” Serena  snorted, but went ignored. “I’ve never met him. He was supposed to  come to Cytherea’s blessing ceremony, but never showed—I’m sure with  good reason. But what is he like?”

Raye pondered the question while Serena rolled her eyes and fell back  onto the blankets with disgust.

“He was quiet and shrouded in mystery. His appearance was grave and  serious and his eyes full of wisdom and compassion. His words were few,  yet well-spoken and meaningful.” She sighed. “He was all I’d dreamt  he would be.”

The princesses watched Raye with glowing eyes.

“I would do almost anything to meet him, just once,” Lita murmured,  and the girls all nodded in agreement, until Serena bolted upright.

“Why? What is so great about him? If you ask me, he's just a cranky  old hermit with nothing better to do than sulk around young girls’  bedchambers!”

The girls gaped at Serena, before one-by-one lowering their eyes in  mute discomfort. Mina was the last holding Serena's gaze, a look of  pity in her eyes. "Oh, Serena, you should not talk about him in that  manner. You don't understand Lord Grimm's presence in our world and are  sure to embarrass yourself if you speak about him that way."

Serena sighed—a polite way of hiding her growl. "You're right. I don't  understand his presence in your world. So could you please explain it  to me?"

Mina folded her hands in her lap and appeared in deep concentration,  before slowly stating, "I would be happy to try.”

She cleared her voice, and began, “Once upon a time, this land was  dead and barren, full of nothing but dirt and sand and hot winds. There  were no lakes and no mountains for as far as the eye could see. At  night there was only blackness—no moon and no stars. During the day  the sun was swelteringly hot. No plants grew, and no people or animals  lived.

"Then, one day, a group of five storytellers came to this world and saw  potential in the wasteland they’d discovered. Together, they began to  speak to the land, and the words fell from their lips like jewels. They  spoke of blue skies and full moons and heavy rains. They spoke of  forests with trees that touched the clouds and mountains full of gold  and silver and wheat fields and apple orchards. They spoke of palaces  and rivers and quaint houses with daisies in their gardens and wishing  wells and cobblestone roads. They spoke of birds that woke up the sun  with their singing and toads that lulled it to sleep with their  croaking. And they spoke of people, brothers and sisters and mothers  and fathers, enemies and lovers, dwarves and elves and fairies, and  three royal families that would rule the three kingdoms: Aysel to the  south, Obelia to the north, and Cashlin to the west. The east was  designated a magical wood that the five storytellers would rule over  themselves, a place where people from all lands could meet in harmony  and seek out their unbiased help and advice."

"And two of them were the Grimm Brothers...?"

Mina frowned at the interruption, but responded, "Yes, there were the  two Lord Grimms, along Lord Perrault, Lord Anderson, and the Mother."

"The Mother?"

"She liked to be called Mother Goose," Lita stated, curling her knees  to her chest with a childish smile.

"Mother Goose? You've got to be kidding me." At another of Mina's harsh  frowns, Serena leaned back ashamedly. "I'm sorry. Please, continue."

Mina nodded and cleared her throat. "Years, decades, and centuries  passed. The three kingdoms flourished and prospered and lived in peace.  The villagers were free to roam the countryside and visit the other  kingdoms at their leisure. The storytellers often left their woods to  attend ceremonies at their kingdoms, and give their blessings, and tell  their fantastical tales of faraway lands.

“But there came a day when a thick fog came out of the woods and  rolled over all of the kingdoms, covering the world in a dark and  gloomy mist. It remained for twelve days and on the thirteenth day, the  four Masters came out of the woods carrying a glass coffin—the Mother  had come down with a horrible illness on the morning the fog first  drifted in and was now dead. They set the coffin in the center of the  crossroads that stood between the woods and the three kingdoms and for  twelve days all of the citizens of all kingdoms were invited to come  and pay homage to her body—which they did, bestowing the coffin with  flowers and jewels. On the thirteenth day, the four remaining  storytellers returned to the woods, taking the Mother’s coffin with  them.

“The Mother’s coffin was never seen again and it’s believed that she  was buried somewhere in the woods. For many years people believed that  her good spirit still walked among them, spreading the same blessings  and warmth that she had in life.”

“That’s also where the glass coffin tradition came from,” said Amy,  tugging absently on her skirt.

“Glass coffin tradition?” Serena asked.

“Yes. Since the Mother’s death it has been a custom for all queens  and princesses to be placed in a glass coffin and displayed for twelve  days upon their death, so that their loved ones may mourn and honor  their lives before they are buried.”

Serena snuck a glance at Raye, but the black-haired princess was gazing  sorrowfully out the window and nodding her head to Mina’s  explanations.

“After the Mother’s death,” Mina continued, “the fog lifted and  life in the three kingdoms went on as it always had, but some people  began to notice odd tensions between the kingdoms, and mishaps that  never would have happened before. A tower guard who had always sat atop  the eastern wall mysteriously fell off one day. The candle maker’s son  slipped and landed on a lit candle, scorching himself and almost  burning down their house in the process. The queen’s loyal knave stole  her tarts and mercilessly ran away with them. Little things, you see?  And people chalked them all up to high tension in the aftermath of the  Mother’s death.

“But then, just as things seemed back to normal, another fog rolled  down into the land. Again, it lasted for twelve days, and on the  thirteenth day, three of the storytellers came out of the wood carrying  a glass coffin—this time with the corpse of Lord Perrault. Again, the  fog lifted and the people came to mourn him before he was taken away  and put to eternal rest. And again, day-to-day occurrences began to go  amiss. For example, servant girls who had been very good suddenly had  reptiles falling out of their mouths when they spoke, whereas cruel,  disdainful girls had jewels falling from theirs. Frightened and  nervous, some villagers sought out the three remaining storytellers for  reassurance and for the first time discovered that the enchanted woods  that had once been beautiful and full of cheerful sounds and bright  colors were now cold and cast in shadow. Nevertheless, they reached the  cottage of the storytellers and asked them what was happening to their  happy, enchanted lives. They were told that the world was in mourning  for the death of the storytellers and that they should not worry and  were sent home.

“Many more years and generations passed and the occasional mishap  became normal, until the fog came again. This time, it was Lord  Andersen who had died from the strange sickness, and the two Brothers  Grimm brought the glass coffin down. Because of the changes to the  enchanted woods, villagers no longer traveled to see the storytellers  and were shocked to see time had worn on the brothers, bestowing them  with wrinkles and graying hair. Nevertheless, their bodies were strong  and able and after twelve days had passed, they took up Lord Andersen’ s coffin and disappeared into the forest. Not a week later, a goose boy  went down to Schaum Lake and discovered that all the merpeople had been  turned to foam on the water.”

“How did he know that’s what became of them?”

“The fish told him, of course.”

Serena flinched. “Right, the fish.”

“This was also the time when farmers who lived near the enchanted  woods began to notice strange happenings at night: unusual shadows  moving between the trees and lights flickering among the branches, the  sounds of wistful singing or, even worse, desperate wailing. The word  spread and soon the woods became known as the Haunted Woods, and no one  dared venture inside, even to call upon the Lords Grimm.”

Looking around at her companions, Serena noted that they all looked  pale and tense. Mina’s bright blue eyes were downcast and she had to  pause from time to time in her telling to calm a trembling in her  voice.

“It was a long, long time after the death of Master Andersen before  the fog came again. This time, when it lifted, the lone Lord Grimm  trekked down from the woods and informed the people that his brother  had died of the same illness and he would bury him alone in the woods. ”

Serena started, her eyes widening in disbelief as she thought of the  crazy old man on Thornrose Lane who had first sent her into this world.  She opened her mouth to dispute Mina’s claims, but the princess  continued, ignorant of Serena’s protest.

“Even without the glass coffin, the kingdom mourned the passing of  their Lord Grimm, and then…”

Serena quickly changed her impending question. “Then what?”

“Then my mother died,” Raye answered in a faraway voice.

“And Beryl married her way onto the throne of Cashlin,” added Lita.

Mina had evidently reached the conclusion of her story and Serena let  it sink in for a moment, before screwing up her face in thought and  asking, “So… you worship Grimm because he isn’t dead yet?”

Her companions gasped and Serena found herself staring at four angrily  flushed faces. She backed away against the pillows. “I’m sorry. That  maybe came out a bit more harsh that I wanted it to.”

Biting the inside of her cheek, Amy reached forward and took Serena’s  hand, her blue eyes filled with intensity. “Don’t you understand,  Serena? Our world, our very livelihoods, were founded by the  storytellers. They are our foundation and protection from all the evils  this land naturally harbored. And with every coming fog, every illness  and every death, this world grows worse. If Lord Grimm were to pass  away….” She shuddered.

“Who knows what would happen?” Serena finished for her, to the nods  of her companions. “I see,” she murmured, squeezing Amy’s hand,  before standing and pacing the room. She knew that there was one  missing piece to their puzzle—one that she was no longer sure she  wanted to share.

Grimm’s brother was still alive—in her world. Not being capable of  carrying a glass coffin by oneself made an excellent excuse for Grimm,  but claiming the death of his brother had been a lie.

But why, she wondered, would the old man she’d met on Thornrose Lane  have left this world that he’d helped to create? Did he no longer care  what happened in this land of fairy tales? No, she knew that couldn’t  be true. The whimsy in his voice when she’d met him had proven that he  missed this world, and she was sure he would have come back—or stayed  to begin with—had he the choice.

Perhaps he’d been afraid? But if the storytellers had as much power in  this world as she was led to believe, what could he possibly have been  afraid of?

Unless….

Serena gasped.

Unless he was afraid of another storyteller, someone who was just as  powerful—his own brother. 

What if Lord Grimm was somehow responsible for the deaths of his  comrades? And his brother had been trying to escape before becoming  another victim? Serena felt like she’d swallowed ice. She didn’t know  what Grimm’s motivation would have been for getting rid of the other  storytellers, but she was already beginning to form a few theories.

“So you see, Lady Serena,” Raye interrupted her thoughts and Serena  turned to her with shaken composure, “without Lord Grimm to watch over  us, this world would be a miserable place to live in, much like  Cashlin, my former kingdom, has become under Beryl’s rule. That is why  we honor and admire him; he is our one stability. Without him, we would  be lost.”

“But if he’s protecting this land, why hasn’t he done anything about  Beryl?”

“He’s only one man, Serena. When there were five storytellers they  could have kept all evil at bay, but Lord Grimm is doing all he can,  and I’m sure that he will conquer Beryl eventually. We must have faith  and patience.”

Serena held back a snort, thoroughly unconvinced, and turned her back  so that the girls would not see the disbelief that she couldn’t wipe  off her face.

“Other than Beryl becoming queen, have other bad things happened since  the death of Grimm’s brother?”

“You don’t think she’s enough?” Lita murmured.

“I’m only curious…”

“Sure, other things, smaller things, as they have been happening since  the death of Mother Goose. They just keep getting worse, and more  plentiful. But Beryl… she tops it all. She could destroy this world.  She could turn it back into the wasteland it used to be if she isn’t  stopped.”

“How did she become queen anyway? Why did your father…?”

Raye shook her head. “He didn’t know. She’s a very good actress—no  one knew what she was truly like, until it was too late. The two of  them seemed so happy when they first got married… but my father didn’ t live to see even their first anniversary.”

Serena gulped, but couldn’t refrain from asking, “What happened to  him?”

“Mysterious death in his sleep due to unknown causes,” Raye drawled.  “In other words, poison.”

Chapter 23: Poison
“Are you afraid that it might be poisoned?” said the old woman.
“Look, I’ll cut the apple in two. You eat the red part, and I’ll eat  the white.”
from Snow White

“Beryl poisoned your father?” Serena asked, though the answer was  clear.

Raye nodded. “It didn’t take long after that for her to show her true  colors. It surprised us all—she’d seemed so happy with my father, and  with me. I remember on the wedding day she asked me to be her  attendant, even though I was only six years old. I combed her hair and  laced her corset and told her she was beautiful—because she was. She  was the most beautiful woman I’d ever seen and I felt proud to have  her for a stepmother, and happy for my father to have found her. I  remember looking over her shoulder and seeing our reflections in the  mirror. She smiled at me and said that I was such a pretty little girl,  that I might be as beautiful as she was one day, but I didn’t believe  her. Her skin was pale, but mine was as white as the dress she wore,  and I felt like a ghost. My hair was so charcoal black that I thought  it was dull and boring, not like her hair that was the mixed color of  honey and roses. And my eyes were always the strangest purple color,  while hers were like fire, like glowing brass, red and gold. Still,  hearing her call me pretty made me feel warm and special, and I was so  happy to be getting her as a new mother, and she seemed so happy to be  getting me as a daughter, that I never even thought...”

“Red and gold?” Serena interrupted. She’d seen red and gold eyes  before, she had the most distinct memory of it, but for a moment she  could not remember where, or on whom.

The girls looked at her, and Raye nodded. “I always thought they were  beautiful, though after I discovered what a witch she was—literally—I  thought they were equally terrifying. I sometimes had the impression  that she was trying to burn holes into my skin.”

Shaking her head, Serena grasped her forehead, searching for an  intangible memory. Red and gold eyes, they were clear in her thoughts.  She could see them—she could feel them. She wondered if perhaps she’d  caught them in the well when Beryl had attacked her with the comb, but  she knew that then the queen’s figure had been only a shadow with  crimson lips.

But another mirror, another time…

“Oh my god,” she murmured, clapping her hands to her mouth as the  memory filled itself in and she knew where she had seen Beryl’s red  and gold eyes—not in the well, but in the mirror belonging to Lord  Grimm, on the wall of his near-empty shack. It had been only moments  after she’d first stumbled into Aysel, and Grimm had locked her out of  his cabin and she’d peered through the window and seen the crooked old  man staring into the mirror, and the evil eyes peering back. She was  amazed that she could have forgotten them at all—the mere thought of  them brought bile to her mouth.

“Serena?”

A hand fell on her shoulder and Serena shirked it away, spinning to see  Lita looking down on her with concern. “Are you—”

“I’ve seen them,” Serena breathed, looking past Lita at the other  girls across the room. “I’ve seen her.”

“The Queen? Serena, where?” Raye stood, nerves tensing. “Here, in  the castle, in Aysel?”

“No, in—” Serena stopped, thinking of the story, of the light in the  girls’ eyes when they spoke of the storyteller, of their savior. “In  the well. I saw her in the well. I remember now.”

Raye nodded, breathing a sigh of relief. “Of course. I saw her in the  mirror last night, too.”

“Well, you are both safe now,” Mina said, launching to her feet and  retying her bathrobe around her slim waist, “and I think we’ve had  enough talk about that horrid woman for one morning. Why don’t we all  get dressed and go for a ride? There are some lovely meadows south of  here, once you get past all the wheat. We can meet in the stables—will  an hour be enough for you all?”

Amy laughed and shook her head. “I’m afraid I may be too recently  married to go gallivanting about with you all. I’m missing Zoicite  dreadfully already, and it’s only been a couple of hours since I’ve  seen him.”

Lita nodded her agreement, and Mina snorted. “Marriage always ruins  girls’ social lives—it’s a terribly tragedy, and I assure you both  that this time will pass. But I understand, run back to your princes  now. Raye, Serena, you’ll go with me, won’t you?” At their dubious  looks, she looked about ready to burst into tears, or throw a tantrum.  “You can’t make me go by myself! Please, it’s been so long since I’ ve had good female companions!”

Raye laughed and agreed. “The fresh air will do me good.”

“An hour then,” Mina confirmed, accepting Serena’s silence as  agreement, and the girls all left the room—to seek men or riding  clothes as the situation went.

But once the door had closed, Serena swept to her wardrobe and dressed  as quickly as she could. She was shaking. The flaming eyes in the  mirror still plagued her.

Lord Grimm was evil and he was working with, or for, Queen Beryl.

Serena didn’t know why, and she didn’t know what she could do about  it, but she knew it must be true. She just had to find someone—anyone —to listen to her.

Pulling on riding boots, she thought to tell Endymion. Perhaps he would  listen, understand, trust… But the thought of facing him made her  sick. She couldn’t. Not after his false proclamation of love. Not  after Trista’s revelation of his true love for Briar Rose.

Serena tied her hair up without brushing it and knotted a cloak over  her shoulders. It had started raining again.

Not Endymion. Not the girls. But then, who?

She was bursting with the secret she’d stumbled on. This life-or-death  knowledge that involved every person in the castle, and that none would  listen to. She felt she would tell a servant if she passed one. She  felt she would tell a mule if it would listen to her.

“Lord Grimm is working for Queen Beryl!” she yelled at her empty room —the rain-splattered window and empty wine decanter and untouched bowl  of fruit. “Lord Grimm tried to kill Raye. Maybe he tried to kill his  brother. Maybe he did kill the other storytellers. He’s a murderer and  a madman and he must be stopped!” Saying the words added to her  conviction. She looked at the mirror above her vanity and felt stupid  for saying the words without covering the glass first. Beryl could be  watching her, right now. Those piercing red-gold eyes could be spying,  those crimson lips could be laughing at Serena’s brazen stupidity.

But then she felt empowered by the mirror’s openness.

She reached into the basket of fruit and chose a glossy red apple—the  seeded, fleshy fruit that symbolized death and poison and envy—and  hurled it at the taunting glass.

It shattered.

Glass and apple shards made the desk and carpet glitter like stars and  smell like cider.

“I will save this world by myself if I have to,” she told the witch  through the looking glass, but the words were meaningful only to her.  The glass was broken and the witch was not listening.

She decided to tell Andrew, not because she wasn’t mad at him anymore  or because she thought that he would be more receiving of her  accusations now than he had been last night, but because he was the  first person she saw and she needed to tell someone. Someone other than  a broken mirror.

As fate had it, Andrew was about to knock on her bedroom door when she  pulled it open to leave and rescue the world in need of rescuing. She  squealed in surprise and almost slammed the door on him in unwarranted  fear, before catching herself and chastising him by saying his name in  a very stern tone.

Andrew’s pale green eyes stared at her with surprise—a little jumpy  himself—and his pointed ears twitched. “Lady Serena, I did not mean  to startle you. Where are you going?”

“Riding with Raye and Mina,” she said, but then changed her mind and  grabbed onto the elf’s white sleeve, pulling him into the room and  shutting the door. “No, I was going to find you, or someone, I wasn’t  sure who, but you’ll have to do since you’re here now and it’s too  important for me to be the only person who knows.”

Andrew’s gaze took in the shattered mirror with curiosity, but he did  not mention it, and instead turned his attention back to Serena. “What  is so important, Lady Serena?”

“Andrew, I know you don’t want to hear this, but you have to listen  to me. Lord Grimm did try to kill Raye last night. I’m sure of it. No,  don’t interrupt, just listen. When I first got here, the first day,  before I came to the castle, I saw Grimm at his house. I looked through  the window because he’d locked me out and wouldn’t talk to me and I  saw him looking into a mirror, and inside the mirror was Beryl. I saw  her, I’m sure of it. I don’t know if they were talking. I don’t know  why he’s working for her or why he wants to kill Raye, but I know what  I saw and we have to stop him!”

She watched Andrew’s expressionless face for a long while as he took  in her certainty with his calm eyes. Finally, the elf pursed his lips  and turned away, stroking his chin with his fingers. He was silent.  Serena was beginning to wish she’d waited and told someone else, when  Andrew regarded her again.

“Lady Serena,” he began, slowly, and she felt her stomach plummet. “ I believe you.”

She sucked in more air than she thought her lungs could handle.

“But I’m not convinced that you’re right.”

“What? Andrew, I saw her!”

“I’m sure, Lady Serena. I’m sure that you did. But we must seek out  all possible explanations.”

“What other explanation could there be?”

“I’m not sure, but I do have some information that you are not aware  of, that could have an effect on your assumptions. That is what I was  coming here to talk to you about.”

“What? What could be more important than this?”

“Whatever the connection is between Lord Grimm and Queen Beryl, I do  not know. But I do know that he was not Raye’s attacker last night,  nor is he the traitor that alerted Beryl to Raye’s presence.”

“How do you know that?”

“Because the traitor is Alex.”

Serena’s jaw hung. She was beginning to feel warm beneath the heavy  cloak. “Alex?”

“Yes, Briar Rose’s guard.”

“But why would…. What…. Why Alex?”

“Please, we may not have much time, so I will explain this to you  quickly. I told you last night that Alex seemed familiar to me, yes? In  the clarity of this morning I remembered where I had seen him before.  It was at Briar Rose’s blessing ceremony, the one at which she was  betrothed to Prince Endymion, and bestowed with Beryl’s curse. Alex  was a child then, perhaps twelve years at most, but he was an attendant  to the queen, and in training for her personal guard. He stood at her  side, depicting the rank he was being raised to inherit. Alex is  working for the queen. He is the traitor.”

Serena’s heart constricted. “Good lord… But that means that Raye is  still in danger!” She raced to the door, but Andrew called to her and  she stopped, breathless.

“Serena, please, we must not be so rash.”

“But Raye!”

“Raye is not Beryl’s only enemy in this castle. There is another whom  Alex is much closer to… whom he will find it much easier to perform  Beryl’s bidding on. I fear that Princess Briar Rose may be his next  victim.”

“Briar Rose? But he loves—” She gasped. “No…”

“It makes sense, doesn’t it? He has seduced her, perhaps with magic,  in order to keep her from her true love and guardian, the Prince  Endymion.”

“That is why…” She nearly choked on the disbelief welling inside  her.

“It must be a very powerful spell to hide the love I felt so many  years ago between the betrothed prince and princess, but it answers so  many questions. Briar Rose and Endymion are meant to be together, Alex  is simply a diversion meant to keep their true romance from sparking.  However, I wonder if their rendezvous this past week has begun to  weaken his hold on the girl, which is why I fear he may prioritize her  death over Raye’s—anything to please his queen.”

“That must explain Raye’s infatuation with him, too,” Serena  murmured, falling against the door, clutching her stomach and sweating.  “He must be using the same spell on her, though her feelings for  Jadeite were so obvious before. Just like… Briar Rose’s and Endymion ’s were to you…” She felt feverish and nauseated and angry—so  bitterly angry—because she had still somehow hoped that it was all a  mistake and that Endymion really did love her after all.

But she shook it off and silently reprimanded her heart for the  overwhelming selfishness. She tried to remind herself that Endymion’s  happiness was all that mattered. Her own desires were childish and  meant nothing.

She turned back to Andrew, trembling. “But what if you’re wrong and  he goes after Raye again? I can’t leave her alone!”

“I will go to Raye, and protect her. You go to the princess—I believe  she is still in her room.”

Serena nodded. “Fine. Raye will be in the stables, with Mina.”

“I will have the word sent out that Alex is to be arrested if found,  but if you see him, pretend that you know nothing. He will not try to  harm you so long as he can go about unsuspected, and he will certainly  do nothing to Briar Rose so long as she is with company. I wish you  luck and safety, Chosen One.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
When Serena barged into Briar Rose’s room, she found the princess  sitting beside the window, her forehead pressed against the glass and  one hand clenched in front of her stomach. Serena sighed with relief  and tried to catch her breath, having run the whole way from her room  with visions of the princess crumpled and bleeding on the floor  flashing before her.
“Princess, you’re okay!” she panted, hoping the princess wouldn’t  mind her bursting in uninvited, but she couldn’t stand to knock.

But Briar Rose had no reaction at all. Her gaze was unblinking on the  gray world and her face was paler than usual.

“Princess?” Serena murmured, her worries returning as she approached  the girl and wondered if it was possible for one to look so alive and  yet be dead. Her heart jumped when the princess blinked, once, still  staring. “Briar Rose, what’s wrong?” Serena slowly seated herself in  the chair facing the princess and reached forward, running a gentle  finger along the girl’s whitened knuckles.

Briar Rose started and looked at Serena for the first time, drawing her  hand back and up toward her heart. Her eyes were red and swollen and  she had the distraught look of one awoken from a nightmare. Serena  gulped nervously.

“Briar… Rose?”

The princess sobbed and slumped over like a rag doll, her hair tumbling  past her knees and brushing on the carpet, her shoulders shaking.  Serena gaped at her, and then reached forward and pulled the girl’s  hair back, holding it back behind her neck and steadily kneeling down  before her. “Briar Rose, what happened?”

Without ceasing her crying, the princess held out her fist and loosened  her fingers, revealing a crumpled slip of paper. Serena took it and the  princess’s fingers snapped closed again as soon as it was away from  her.

Serena unraveled the paper, keeping one hand comfortingly on the  princess’s hair, and read:

My Admirable Princess,

It has been ever an honor to be in the employment and company of your  family and yourself and I am eternally grateful for the goodness you  have bestowed upon me. However, I regret that I will not be  accompanying the Prince Endymion and yourself on the return to Obelia.  I have recently made the acquaintance of another guest here, the Lady  Raye, Friend of Dwarfs, who I have become immediately and hopelessly  fond of. I bid you only happiness in your upcoming marriage.

Sincerely and With Kind Regards,

Alex
Royal Guard to the Obelia Royal Family

Serena frowned, then squeezed her tired eyes shut and shook her head,  opened them and read the letter again.

“When did he give this to you?”

The princess didn’t seem to hear her over her sobs, but Serena figured  the letter couldn’t have been written for long, as Alex and Raye had  only met mere hours ago. There was a sinking, nauseous feeling in her  gut and she wondered what this meant for Raye, and what Alex—and Beryl —were up to by crafting this letter.

Folding it up again, she slipped the note into her bodice and sighed,  tucking a strand of Briar Rose’s hair behind her ear and wondering  what she could say to a girl who’s broken heart was a result of a  cruel love spell by an evil man who’d never loved her to begin with.

“Briar Rose, I’m sorry.”

Roughly shaking her head, the princess hugged her knees and sobbed,  “He was never mine.” More crying, sniffling, while Serena pet her  tangled hair, before finally Briar Rose lifted her head and looked into  Serena’s sorrowful blue eyes. “I was so wrong. I’ve been so stupid  this whole time, hanging onto a child’s adoration. He never loved me  back. I pretended that his compliments and the looks he gave me were  hints of his feelings, but they weren’t. It was all in my imagination.  He was never mine, Serena. And I can’t even hate him for lying to me,  because he never claimed to feel anything… anything inappropriate. Not  even once. He’s so…” She started to cry again and buried her face in  her hands. “So… admirable! And he taunts me by calling me admirable,  and he doesn’t know that I tried to disobey my parents and cancel the  betrothal they made for me. I’m wretched. I’m so wretched.”

“Briar Rose, you had no way of knowing. You were following your heart  and no one can blame you for that.”

“And all this time I thought I had his heart to guide me,” she  murmured into her palms. Then she inhaled a long, wobbling breath, and  when she pulled her hands away her face was flushed and wet—but  emotionless as stone. Serena shrank away at the look.

“Forgive me, Lady Serena,” she said, her voice frighteningly  emotionless. “I’m going to marry Endymion. You’ll hate me forever  and that’s your right, but I have no other choice now.”

Serena wasn’t sure what the princess expected her to say. “Of course,  Briar Rose, and I won’t hate you. He’s been yours all along, you  know. And he’s a good man and I think you’ll find that you’re much  happier with him than you ever would have been with Alex.”

Briar Rose pursed her lips until they were white. Again, Serena reached  to take her hand in a show of understanding and friendship, but again  the princess drew it harshly away. “Please leave, now. I have to  prepare myself for a life no longer worth living.”

Part of Serena wanted to stay, as a true friend would, but she thought  Briar Rose didn’t exactly fall into the friend category, and she had  no reason for staying. She’d done what she came to do. She was to find  out if the princess was well and safe from the clutches of Beryl’s  henchman.

She’d determined that the princess was neither, but that there was  nothing she could do about it.

Slipping out into the hallway, she shut the door behind her and inhaled  a breath so deep she could feel her lungs pushing against her ribs.

“Lady Serena.”

She choked and looked at Endymion. He appeared uncomfortable and like  he didn’t know what to do with his hands, which looked so awkward  compared with his usual complacency.

“Prince Endymion,” she said in an attempt to sound as normal as he  had been trying to sound. It was the first time she’d seen him since  their adventure in the giant’s castle and she knew he was thinking the  same thing. She stepped away from the door. “You must be here to see  your bride. I was just going to—”

“A servant told me she saw you running in this direction not long ago.  I… was coming to see if everything was all right.”

She turned away. “Thank you for your concern. Everything’s fine.”

“Good, because that was a lie.”

Frowning, she turned to face him, and looking at his face full of the  most regretful honesty made tears prick at her eyes and she felt  suddenly exhausted and drained.

“I was looking for you. I’ve been looking for you all morning. A  servant did tell me you came running this way, but only because I asked  if they’d seen you. And I wasn’t really coming to see if everything  was all right, except to make sure that you were okay. Mostly I just  wanted to see you.”

She gaped and cursed her shortening breath. “Well, you saw me, and I  have to go check on Raye,” she quipped.

“Serena, I’ve been thinking about this night and day. I haven’t  slept, I’ve just been wracking my brain for an explanation of what  happened, of what Trista said, and I figured it out, and you have to  listen, and you have to believe me.”

She glared up at him, hating the pleading she saw on his face because  it almost made her forget about the soul bond between him and Briar  Rose. It almost made her forget there even was such a thing as a truth -singing harp. She wanted to tell him there was nothing to explain, to  remind him that Trista always sang the truth and they’d both heard her  loud and clear, but she couldn’t. Not when he was looking at her like  that.

“What? What did you figure out?”

“A love unmatched by time, a love only fate knows, will in your future  shine should you marry Briar Rose.”

“Yeah, I was there, Endymion, you don’t need to reiterate,” she  snapped, surprised at how much the words stung to hear again.

He shook his head and took an unsure step closer to her, in return  sending her one unsure step back.

“What if it was a play on words, Serena? What if Trista was trying to  mess with our heads? What if she was using ‘Briar Rose’ as a nickname  for you—because you can be as harsh and irritating as a thorn, and yet  you’re as beautiful as a rose? Maybe she was talking about you all  along?”

Serena snorted. “Clearly you need to get some sleep, because that is  the stupidest thing I have ever heard! Honestly, Endymion, are you  listening to yourself? It was your idea to ask Trista the question in  the first place. Just because you don’t like the answer she gave doesn ’t make it any less true!”

“No, you’re not listening…”

“I am listening! And I’m telling you that you’re wrong, that you’re  going to marry Briar Rose, and that you’re going to love her and be  happy and forget all about me, and damnit, I’m going home!”

She turned and went to stomp away, but Endymion grabbed her shoulder  and spun her around again. “Serena, I love you. Fine, maybe the harp  is right. Maybe I would be happier with Briar Rose. But happiness is  not that important to me! Not if it means living without you. Don’t  you get that? Until I met you I didn’t even believe in love, and I  told you before that love in this world is a joke. The fact that you  make me feel something—anything—should be proof enough that we are  meant to be together, and I just can’t settle for some cookie-cutter  marriage knowing that you’re out there somewhere.” He sighed and  cupped her cheek with a shaking hand. “I haven’t changed my mind. If  anything this whole harp business has proved to me even more how much I  want to be with you. I meant what I said before. Take me to your world  with you. Marry me.”

“No!” Serena shrieked, pushing him away as forcefully as she could.  “Your fiancé is right through that door! And you’re being so selfish!  What about your parents, your kingdom, Briar Rose’s kingdom?”

“None of that matters to me!”

“Well maybe they should!”

He growled in frustration and drew his hands back through his hair.  “Please, it isn’t like Briar Rose wouldn’t be perfectly happy if I  disappeared the day before our wedding. She doesn’t love me any more  than I love her, and then she would be free to go and marry whomever  she chooses.”

Serena glowered at the marble floor and felt sick for the words she was  about to say. “You’re wrong, Endymion. Briar Rose told me, just now,  that she wants to marry you.”

“What?” he hissed. “That’s impossible. She’s never given any  indication…”

Serena shrugged, feeling a tinge of confidence since she’d already  started lying, and the first lie was always the hardest. “Maybe she  was playing hard to get, or just being shy. But it’s true. She wants  to marry you. She sent me away so that she could prepare for the  wedding and for life… with you.”

Disbelief written on Endymion’s face, he slowly shook his head. “It  doesn’t make any sense. Why would she tell you this?”

“I’m the Chosen One, Endymion, in case you’d forgotten. I have a  responsibility to make everything right in this world, and I’m sure  Briar Rose felt that she could trust me. And she can. So if you want to  run away and ruin your chance at a happy marriage to your betrothed,  fine, but I will have nothing to do with it.”

This time when she stormed away, Endymion did nothing to stop her.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The sky was barely drizzling and there were two guards standing in  front of the stables when Serena arrived.
“I’m sorry, mi’lady,” one said, blocking her path when Serena tried  to ignore them and trudge on past, “but we are forbidden to let anyone  into the stables at this time. Please return to the castle.”

Serena glowered at the man. “What are you talking about? They’re  stables, not the crown jewels! Let me through, I have a meeting with  Princess Mina!”

The man’s expression was full of pity, which angered Serena more. “My  sincerest apologies, mi’lady, but—”

“No, let her through.” Andrew appeared behind the guards, his hands  tucked into the sleeves of his tunic, his hair still damp from trekking  through the rain. “She is the Chosen One. Let her through.”

The guards traded looks but stepped aside without argument, bowing as  Serena passed them. “Andrew, what is going on?”

The elf shook his head, lowering his eyes. “I was too late.” Turning,  he led Serena back past the first set of stables, their feet padding on  the dirt and hay. Serena ignored the pungent horse aroma as she gaped  at the back of Andrew’s head and followed him mutely past the rows of  mares. Over his shoulder she saw Mina, dressed in riding clothes, and  Seiya standing silently beside her.

“Oh, Serena!” Mina cried and Serena saw that her eyes were red.

“What’s going on?”

“Don’t take her in there,” the princess said to Andrew. “She doesn ’t need to see. It’s too terrible…”

“Mina?”

“I’m afraid she must see,” Andrew sighed. “It is terrible, but I’m  afraid she must.” He led Serena past the two and Serena saw Seiya’s  gray-blue eyes locked on the far wall, his face expressionless as  usual, the black tear tattoo the only sign of feeling. She tore her  eyes away from him and walked into the last stable, already knowing  what awaited her there.

It made it no easier to see.

Raye was dead.

Her body lay limp and breathless, her hair tangled in the hay. The  fingers of one outstretched hand pointed to a barely-bitten red apple  that had rolled a few inches away. Her skin, still white as snow,  looked more ashen than porcelain, and her lips, still red as blood,  carried a few drops of true blood on them.

Serena clenched her jaw, her eyes steaming, and walked gingerly toward  the princess, not bothering to call her name. She could hear Mina  sniffling on the other side of the short stable wall and feel Andrew’s  presence beside her. Gulping, she bent down and picked up the apple by  the stem. Straw stuck to the juices where Raye had bitten it.

“This should be disposed of,” she whispered into the eerie sound of  death and mourning, pulling a strand of hair off of Raye’s parted lips  with her free hand. “And bring Prince Jadeite as soon as possible. He ’s the only one who will be able to save her.”

“That will not be possible, Lady Serena.”

She glanced at the elf over her shoulder. “Why not?”

“Because Master Jadeite… is also dead.”

Chapter 24: The Glass Coffin
They made a glass coffin so that she could be seen from all sides.
Then they put her in it, wrote her name on it in gold letters,
and added that she was a princess.
from Snow White

“Jadeite—dead?” Serena cried, her hand flying to her mouth.

Andrew gestured with his arm and Serena spun around to see Jadeite’s  lifeless body propped against a stable wall, the hilt of a sword  jutting up from his stomach.

“Oh, dear God,” Serena breathed, dropping the poisoned apple and  forcing her eyes up to the elf in the doorway. “How? Who?”

“It was Alex, the henchman of Queen Beryl, the pretend guard of  Princess Briar Rose. He murdered them both.”

“You know for sure?” she asked, her voice wavering.

“I know for sure. It is his sword.” Andrew paused, his light eyes  flickering back to the dead princess. “He has already been arrested  and thrown into the dungeon, on my word and the command of Princess  Mina. He, at least, will harm no one else in this kingdom. But Beryl  will not stop there. Lady Serena, what will you do?”

An angry sob escaped her and Serena lurched forward, collapsing into  the hay. “Nothing! I can’t do anything!”

Mina heard her crying from around the corner and came to comfort the  girl as Andrew watched with solemn eyes.

“Come on, let’s go back to the castle,” Mina urged. “Nothing can be  done here. We have to let the dwarfs know…” Her voice broke, but she  lifted Serena from the ground with ease and led her back through the  stables. The walk across the field and garden was a blur to Serena,  until she staggered to the castle door on Mina’s arm and saw Endymion  at the top of the stairs. Serena could not stop crying when she saw  him. His eyes shimmered, but his jaw was set.

“Your… your brother…”

“I know.”

Gasping for air, Serena lowered her gaze. Mina guided her up the stairs  in silence.

“Could you have stopped it?” Endymion asked as they passed him,  forcing the girls to stop.

Serena could not bring herself to look at him and shrugged off Mina’s  protective arm. “I don’t know,” she whispered dryly. “Could you?”

When he didn’t answer she turned to walk away.

“Perhaps,” he finally whispered, and she had to stop again, and this  time raised her eyes to see his face—passive and dejected. “Perhaps I  could have stopped it. If I hadn’t been so—”

Distracted. Preoccupied.

He’d been with her when it had happened.

Serena considered telling him that there was no way he could have known  what was happening, that he had nothing to do with it, that he couldn’ t blame himself. But she didn’t. A part of her was angry at him, maybe  because he wasn’t trying to comfort her at all. Besides, she didn’t  see the point. Let him blame himself for everything. Let him blame his  imagined love for everything.

After all, maybe love was to blame. For everything.

“Perhaps,” she said.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Briar Rose was standing outside of Serena’s bedroom, wringing her  hands, and Serena felt her heart plummet. The last thing she wanted was  to see Endymion’s fiancé and have to comfort and console her—again.

“Serena!” the princess cried when she saw her. “They’ve taken Alex.  I saw the guards arrest him. Please, what’s going on? Where have they  taken him? What’s happened?”

Serena felt a headache throbbing at the base of her skull and all of  her patience worn thin by the onslaught of tragedy and death and  heartbreak the last hours had brought her.

“He was arrested, he was thrown in the dungeon. Briar Rose, please, I  need to be alone. Just for a little while. Please.”

“Why?” the princess shrieked, hysterical. “Why did they arrest him?  What’s going on?”

Serena groaned and leaned her forehead against her bedroom door, one  hand on the knob. “He’s working for Queen Beryl.”

“What?Alex? No, there’s been a mistake.”

“No, Princess, no mistake. He’s one of the queen’s top henchmen. He  was sent here to kill her stepdaughter, Raye, formerly known as Snow  White. Hell, he was probably sent here to kill you, too.”

“Serena!” Briar Rose growled, clamping one hand onto Serena’s arm.  “This is insane. Please, Alex is a good man. He’s kind and gentle. He  would never hurt a soul! He redeemed himself from his servitude to  Berylyears ago. There’s clearly been a mistake!”

Serena snapped her gaze toward the princess. “You knew that he worked  for Beryl?”

Briar Rose’s jaw dropped, before she frowned and vigorously shook  Serena’s arm. “Of course I knew! I love him! I know everything about  him, and you and everyone are wrong about him. He doesn’t work for her  anymore. He’s a good man. We have to set things straight—they have to  let him go!”

Serena pried Briar Rose’s grip from her arm and shoved her away. “You ’re wrong. He has you under a spell and that’s why you can’t see it.  He is evil and he is working for the queen and he murdered Raye and  Jadeite. He murdered them.”

The princess gawked. “Murdered? Lady Raye and… and the prince…?”

“They were found this morning. Jadeite had Alex’s sword…” Serena  turned away, her throat tightening. “Alex is not a good man.”

“I’m telling you it isn’t possible. I know him better than anyone.  There’s been a mistake.”

“Princess, please…”

“It doesn’t make sense. What about the letter he gave me? He was in… ” she caught her breath and shook her head and continued. “He was  inlove with Raye. Why would he hurt her?”

Scoffing, Serena reached into her bodice and pulled out the note Alex  had left for the princess just that morning. “He didn’t mean it,  Briar Rose. It was a scam! A lie! Everything he has ever told you was a  lie! Maybe he wanted to use this note as an alibi, so that everyone  else would ask that same question: Why would he kill a woman he loved?  Or maybe he did love her and when he stumbled on her and Jadeite  together he killed them both in a jealous rage. I don’t know why he  wrote the letter. But he killed them, and you’re being naïve.”

She ignored Briar Rose’s indignant reply, fleeing into her room and  slamming the door behind her.

The carpet by her vanity was still littered with broken glass and the  rotting pieces of apple that she’d thrown at the mirror in a fit of  anger. Sobbing, she collapsed to the floor amidst the shards, wishing  that she had a hundred more apples to throw at a hundred more mirrors.  She felt sick and livid and exhausted and helpless.

“I don’t want to be here anymore,” she whimpered to a hundred tiny  reflections. “I want to go home. I just want to go home.”

And there she cried and cried until she finally—hours later—fell  asleep among the glass.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
She was awoken by knocking at her door. Opening her eyes slowly she saw  moonlight glittering all around her, reflected on the mirror shards.  She listened until the knock came again and then sat up with a grunt,  wondering if it had all been a horrible nightmare, but the taste of  salt on her lips suggested that it had not.

The knock came again and she climbed to her feet and opened the bedroom  door.

It was Endymion.

“What time is it?” she murmured drowsily.

“Late,” he said, and stepped into the room, his eyes sweeping over  the broken glass on the floor, before meeting hers without the  slightest hint of curiosity. But the look faded and his eyes were only  haunted and determined. He was dressed in his hunting clothes, a sword  buckled on his hip and likely a dozen other weapons hidden among the  cloak.

“Endymion?”

“I was going to leave without telling you goodbye,” he said in that  painfully matter-of-fact tone he’d perfected, “but I couldn’t.”

“Leave?” Serena asked, rubbing the dried up salt from her cheeks.  “Where are you going?”

“To Cashlin. I’m going to kill Beryl and avenge my brother’s death. ”

Serena blinked, quickly turning her surprise to disapproval.  “Endymion, don’t be stupid! She’s the most powerful witch who has  ever lived. Do you really think that you can do anything to her?”

His face softened, the tiniest fleck of mirth entering his eyes. “I  think I have as good a chance as anyone.”

“But what if she kills you?”

“Would you mourn for me?”

“Endymion!” she cried, wanting to chastise him for asking a question  she couldn’t answer and scream at him for heading off for such danger  and beg him to stay because the kingdom needed him and Briar Rose  needed him. But mostly because she couldn’t stand the thought of him  leaving, not when so much was happening. Perhaps she needed him.

He lowered his eyes. “I’ve never been afraid of death, Serena. Why  should I be now?”

“Because it’s a lot more likely this time?”

His lips twitched upward and she clenched her fists, agitated at his  arrogance. “Maybe you just don’t want to see me leave?”

Serena threw her arms exasperatedly into the air. “Of course I don’t  want you to leave! You’re the best hunter in the kingdom, don’t you  think we might be able to use you here if some more of Beryl’s  henchman show up? Or what if she comes here or… or…. Besides,  tomorrow is Briar Rose’s birthday!”

She expected him to cringe and dodge the subject of his fiancé, as he  always did, but instead he only shrugged. “And I don’t love her any  more than I did yesterday, or the day before. Serena, I didn’t come  here to fight with you. I just thought you deserved to know that I was  leaving. And… I just wanted to see you again. In case I do die.”

“Endymion, please…. It’s crazy. It’s stupid, and… and you just  shouldn’t! By yourself? It’s suicide!” But she could tell that he  would not waver and felt her resolve crumbling. “Fine!” she screamed.  “Go then! Go get yourself killed!”

He smiled sadly and reached a hand up to her face. She couldn’t pull  away and so hid her face with her hands.

“Serena, I have a favor to ask of you.”

“No, I won’t do anything for you.”

“All right. You don’t have to. But I’m going to ask anyway.” He  gently pulled her hands away from her face but she angrily squeezed her  eyes shut to avoid his pleading blue eyes. “If I die, and you go back  to your world, I want you to give a kiss to that boy.”

“What boy?” she asked, momentarily forgetting her distress at the  unexpected request.

Endymion barely chuckled. “You know, that boy. The other me.”

It took a moment to realize who he was talking about, and then remember  his name. “Darien Shields?”

“Sure.”

“You’re not making any sense.”

“It makes sense to me. I figure that if he’s so much like me then he  must be in love with you.”

“You’re not—”

“And if I can’t have you, I think I’d prefer my otherworldly twin to  have you instead. It may be the closest to kissing you I will ever  come, because I have the peculiar sense that you aren’t going to let  me kiss you now.”

She hated him at that moment, when he was so close and his hand was so  tender. She hated that she painfully, desperately wanted to let him  kiss her. But she lowered her eyes. It was as much rejection as she  could muster.

“I thought not,” he murmured, but there was humor in his tone.

“He isn’t you, Endymion.”

“I know. Which is what brings me to request number two.”

“I already told you I won’t do anything for you if you leave.”

“If I survive,” he said, ignoring her, “it will mean that Beryl is  dead and all the evil she’s cast in this world has been eradicated.  And then I am going to come back and if you haven’t left for your  world yet, I’m going to ask you to marry me again.”

“Endy—”

“And all I ask is that you think about it. Briar Rose’s curse will be  broken and she won’t need me. Beryl will be gone and this world won’t  need you as their Chosen One. And I’m still going to love you.”

She sobbed and tried to cover her face again, but instead found her  body crushed against Endymion chest as he wrapped his arms tightly  around her shoulders, holding her as she started to cry against him.

“All I ask is that you think about it.”

“I’ll do nothing for you. Nothing…”

She felt him nod, the beginning of his evening stubble rubbing against  her forehead. “Stay out of trouble, Serena. I know you think you have  all these crazy responsibilities around here, but it’s all meaningless  if anything happens to you. Protect yourself first. I’ll come back if  I can.”

Then he released her as quickly as he had first grabbed her and left  the room. Serena cried, standing alone in her room and staring silently  out into the deserted hallway, and thought that she should have let him  kiss her.

Uncounted moments later, a flutter of purple dragonfly wings appeared  in her vision and Serena gasped, startled, and shook herself from the  onslaught of mourning.

“Well, quite the Chosen One you are,” Hota hissed, her hands on her  hips as she hovered in the doorway. “Where have you been all day? The  kingdom is a mess! Snow White and Jadeite dead, Beryl’s henchmen  prowling the castle, the royal family in mourning, and you up here  hiding from it all! And where was Endymion heading earlier? I know he  was up here but he would talk to no one!”

“He left.”

“Left? What do you mean left?”

“He was going to Cashlin to kill Beryl and avenge Jadeite’s death.”

“Cashlin! To kill Beryl! The day before Briar Rose—! Why didn’t you  stop him?”

“I tried! But what did you want me to say? Nothing short of  proclaiming my undying love could have kept him here and goodness knows  I’m forbidden from doing that!”

Hota’s jaw fell and for a moment it looked as if even her wings would  stop beating, but they did not and a moment later she looked angrier  than ever, her small face turning cherry red. “Well, doesn’t that  just add a bit of drama to everything. I thought we’d been through  this, Serena. I thought you realized that you didn’t truly love him.  It’s all been a hoax. A spell.”

“I don’t care what it’s been. It killed me watching him leave  without being able to tell him the one thing I wanted to.”

“Killed you?” Hota said coolly, pursing her lips. “Speak not of  death, child. Not with one prince being prepared for burial and one  princess already beneath glass.”

“Already beneath glass?”

“Yes. The dwarfs started construction on her coffin as soon as they  heard. There was a small ceremony earlier, which you missed.”

“No one came to tell me.”

“And they will be setting out for the Enchanted Forest within the  hour.”

“Why not wait until morning?”

Hota shook her head. “Unlike some people, the dwarfs will not sleep  tonight. So what does it matter?”

Serena flinched but could muster no response before Hota had flown away  in disgust. She felt tears—angry, disappointed, rejected—welling up  again, but inhaled a long breath and held it until her lungs burned,  then swiped at her eyes and refused to let the tears fall. “Enough of  that,” she muttered to herself.

Still fully dressed, she hurried out into the castle. It didn’t take  long to reach the stables, and she was grateful to see the forms of  seven small men standing out in the open. At least she would not have  to go into those horrid stables again.

They all stood around a glass coffin that shimmered in the moonlight.  It was only then that Serena realized the heavy storm clouds had rolled  away to reveal a clear night sky. A sharp wind reminded her, though,  that it was indeed autumn, and she tightened the cloak around her  shoulders. The bottom half of the coffin was made from a rich-colored  wood and as she approached, Serena could make out carvings in the sides  of animals and flowers and the moon and the sun and—at the foot of the  coffin—a dead apple tree. She was astonished that the dwarfs had been  able to create something of such stunning craftsmanship in so little  time.

The top half of the coffin was domed glass, perfectly framing the  vision that lay inside. Raye had been redressed in a white satin gown,  her hair combed and arranged around her shoulders, curling softly  around her arms. Her hands were clasped on her stomach, holding the  bitten apple. Just as the girl’s beauty would never fade, it looked as  though the apple would never spoil. Its skin was the same glossy red as  her lips.

Gralogwid was the first to notice her approach and nod in greeting.  Soon, his six brothers had recognized her and nodded their silent  welcome. She saw that there was not a dry eye among them.

The dwarfs returned to their silent reminiscing, heads bowed, eyes cast  down toward the ground and their princess. Serena joined them, folding  her hands in front of her stomach, closing her eyes, and thinking about  all the wonderful things she knew about Raye, even though she’d only  known her a few days. Her spirit, her charm, her wit, how much she  loved the dwarfs and their cottage in the woods, how she cared about  beautiful things and innocent creatures. Serena thought of the bond  Raye had instantaneously formed with little Hansel and briefly wondered  if anyone had bothered to tell the children what had happened. She  thought that once this small funeral-like procession was done, she  should go find them. Tell them, if she had to, and be there to comfort  them. She wondered if they had ever experienced death before, and now  two of their favorite people—Raye and Jadeite—were gone.

She felt tears dripping down her chin again, but did not chastise  herself for them this time. They felt cleansing. Respectful. Kind.

A cloud passed over the moon, sending the world into shadow, and the  dwarfs all stepped forward and without word lifted the coffin from the  ground. Carrying it on their shoulders, they began to walk off toward  the woods that covered the eastern horizon. The tops of the trees  swayed like murky shadows against the navy sky.

Serena stood where she was and watched them go. They moved slowly and  deliberately so as not to jar their precious load. As they disappeared  into the blackness, Serena had the distinct feeling that she would  never see the dwarfs again. A chill swept across her and she  instinctively held the cloak closer to her body. A moment later, the  moon broke through the clouds again, but the dwarfs were gone.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Hansel and Gretel had been put into the care of Madame Foxglove, the  old nurse of all five princes who had tutored and raised them when  their parents were too busy with diplomatic duties. When she had  retired, Madame Foxglove had been given a small cottage at the edge of  town, where she kept a garden and watched the townspeople’s children  when needed. When she’d first been introduced to Hansel and Gretel—on  the morning of the double wedding ceremony—she’d been delighted to  have permanent wards in her motherly affection.

Serena found Madame Foxglove’s cottage without trouble—all the  townspeople knew just where to direct her—and knocked softly on the  door. Upon entering, she realized that she was not the only one who had  been concerned for the children. Amy and Zoicite were already seated on  the floor of the small parlor, the brother and sister each occupying  one of Amy’s knees. At Serena’s entrance, Madame Foxglove came  scurrying in from a tiny kitchen in the back wearing an orange apron  and a bright blue calico dress.

“Why, more company still!” she said. “If I’d have known my little  home would be so popular today, I would have bothered to clean. You  must be Lady Serena. I’ve heard much about you, lass. Would you like a  cup of tea?” On queue, a screeching whistle sounded from the kitchen.

“Please… thank you.” Serena closed the door behind her and the woman  scuttled back toward her kitchen.

“Lady Serena, I’m so glad you came to join us,” said Zoicite,  looking up at her with a half-smile.

She tried to return the look but felt her heart breaking at the  reminder of yet one more brother suffering from the morning’s loss. “ Zoicite, I’m so sorry…” she whispered brokenly.

The prince nodded, his smile falling. “Thank you.”

“Please, sit,” said Amy and Serena claimed a spot on the carpet  across from them. The carpet was plush and comfortable, and the room  itself was painted a warm, vibrant brick color with aged white  wainscoting bordering the lower half of the walls. A plant stand stood  beneath an eyelet-covered window, holding terracotta pots of daisies  and herbs. The house was neither rich nor drab, elegant nor ugly. It  was eclectic and warm and interesting.

“I wanted to see Hansel and Gretel,” Serena said, tying her hands  together. “I wasn’t sure if anyone had… told them.”

“Raye and Jade are gone,” Hansel said in a tone of certainty,  confirming that they had, indeed, been told.

“Yes,” Serena said.

“And they’re not coming back.”

“No.”

“We’re going to miss them.”

“Yes,” Serena said, nodding. “We are.”

Serena wasn’t sure if the children had cried earlier, but their eyes  were dry now as Amy held them. Gretel was sucking on a strand of her  hair, her head nuzzled beneath Amy’s chin and her wide green eyes  staring across the room at Serena. She had one hand wrapped around two  of Hansel’s fingers. Her brother was sitting up straight with his  hands on his knees, determined to be strong.

“Are you both okay? Do you want to talk about it at all? Or do you  have any questions?”

“We know what death is,” said Hansel.

“But it’s okay to be sad.”

“I’m sad,” said Gretel through a mouthful of hair.

“We’re sad,” agreed Hansel. “But now they’re together in that  place where good people go. They’re happy there.”

Serena’s lips tilted up slightly.

“Raye was the prettiest lady ever,” Gretel murmured, mostly to  herself. “I think Jade liked her.”

“Of course he did. I liked her too,” Hansel said, looking at his  sister, but Gretel shook her head at him.

“I think he liked her more than you did.”

Hansel looked about to refute, but he paused. “I think she liked him,  too.”

Gretel nodded and there were no more words anyone could say. The  children’s simple observations had stated as fact what the adults had  only entertained as rumored fancy, and they all knew that the children  were probably right.

Madame Foxglove appeared in the doorway with a tray of tea and Serena  wondered if she’d been waiting for the conversation to run its course  before interrupting. Soon, everyone was holding a cup of tea with milk  and sugar and Madame Foxglove seated herself in the rocking chair that  creaked quietly when she swayed.

Serena sipped and glanced at Zoicite over the rim of her cup. He was  picking tufts from the carpet and ignoring the warm cup of tea in his  hand. “And what about you, Zoicite? Are you okay?”

He looked up as if surprised to be spoken to. “Fine,” he lied. After  a hesitation, he asked, “Did Endymion really go to Cashlin?”

Serena nodded.

“He should have told me. I would have gone with him.”

“You and your brothers all have wives to take care of,” Serena  pointed out. “He wouldn’t have wanted to take you away from them.”

She could see that Zoicite knew that was the truth, but nevertheless he  repeated, “He should have told me.”

Another long silence was broken by Amy, murmuring, “If I hadn’t asked  her to be part of the wedding…”

A spark ignited in Zoicite’s distressed eyes, and he reached over and  rubbed Amy’s back. “Don’t do that to yourself, love. Don’t blame  yourself for something that wasn’t your fault.”

“Zoicite’s right. Beryl had already discovered the dwarfs’ cottage.  She would have found Raye either way.”

“But maybe then Jadeite…”

Serena frowned, thinking that maybe it had been a mistake for Raye to  come to the castle. Maybe if she would have been poisoned at the  cottage, Jadeite would have been left alone. Then a day would have come  when he would find the princess in her glass coffin and awoken her,  like in the fairy story. Serena felt sick to her stomach at the  realization of how easily the tragedy could have been avoided. She  couldn’t help retracing their steps, all the decisions she had made,  and wondering…

“Let’s not play the game of what-ifs and past regrets,” said Madame  Foxglove, stirring her tea with a pudgy finger. “You have made no  trespasses and Raye was blessed with your friendship, just as young  Master Jadeite was blessed with loving and devoted brothers. Besides,  it is not untold for tragedies to eventually become happy miracles.  Give it time. Mourn and grieve and remember your loved ones, but give  it time. Perhaps Lord Grimm will still be able to fix all this and the  kingdom will find happiness again.”

Serena’s stomach constricted as she remembered her discovery of just  that morning of how she had seen Beryl’s evil eyes glaring out from  Grimm’s very own mirror. How the revered and honorable Lord Grimm was  no more than a traitor. Perhaps he hadn’t been responsible for the  attacks on Raye and Jadeite, but even so, Serena knew that he would not  be fixing anything. Silently, angrily, she drank her tea.

Across from her, Gretel pulled the hair from her mouth and yawned. The  children’s eyes were drooping. Setting her cup of tea down, Madame  Foxglove rose to her feet. “I believe it’s time for bed. It’s been a  rough day.”

Gretel got up from Amy’s lap without complaint and wrapped her fists  up in the nurse’s skirt, but Hansel shook his head. “I won’t sleep. ”

“Then you will be very tired tomorrow, won’t you? Come along. Don’t  argue.”

Pouting, the boy turned and hugged Amy around her neck, then hugged  Zoicite as well. Gretel left the nurse to do the same, and they each  came and hugged Serena too, before following Madame Foxglove across the  hall to their own rooms.

Zoicite shook his head when they had left, reaching out and holding his  wife’s hand. “This week…”

Serena knew his thoughts. A battle with witches, two brothers married,  one brother dead, one brother on his way to death…

“How are the king and queen? And Malachite? I haven’t seen them.”

“As can be expected,” said Amy. “Mina has been in need of consoling.  She found them, you know...” Serena nodded, though she couldn’t  imagine how horrible it would be to stumble onto that tragic scene.  “And wasn’t tomorrow to be another joyous day? The world should stop  in these times of mourning. For all this to happen right before that  lovely Briar Rose’s birthday…. If her curse befalls her while  Endymion is gone…. Really, can this kingdom take much more?”

“Maybe that’s what Queen Beryl wanted,” Zoicite suggested, and  Serena wondered if he didn’t have a point. Maybe it was all part of  her ultimate plan. She began to wish that she had tried harder to keep  Endymion from leaving. Her thoughts drifted to him and she wondered how  far away he was now, and how long it would take him to get to Cashlin.  Would he take main roads or cut through fields? She was sure he had  taken a horse—it would make no sense to travel on foot. She wondered  if he would ride under the darkness of night and sleep during the day.  If he would sleep at all. She sighed at the thought of him, steadfast  and determined atop his prized steed, and wondered if he was thinking  at all of her.

I’m going to ask you to marry me again.

If he came back.

If he came back, the spell on him would be broken and his soul-bound  love for Briar Rose would be reignited. Either way, Serena had lost  him.

Chapter 25: Castle of Thorns
Soon a brier hedge began to grow all around the castle. It surrounded
and covered the entire castle, so that it was no longer visible, and
the thorns clung together tightly as though they had hands.
from Brier Rose

The gray, ominous cloud cover was back the next morning, but the dwarfs  were not. No one mentioned their disappearance. No one talked about  much of anything. The servants, usually so light-footed and cheerful in  their daily work, instead sulked and plodded through their tasks.  Everything seemed trivial. Everyone wore black.

Serena was up early. The broken glass from her vanity mirror had been  cleaned up by some sly servant while Serena had been gone the evening  before and a fire had been built in her hearth, but it had died down  during the night, leaving a chill in her bedroom. There was no sign of  her four dedicated handmaidens, so she robotically styled her hair into  her signature twin buns and ponytails and put on a black cotton dress,  the only black thing she’d been given to wear. She didn’t bother with  shoes. She thought that she looked deathly pale and felt tired and  weak. She’d tossed and turned all night.

The hallways of the castle felt eerily deserted, and the occasional  ghost-like maid didn’t help the feeling. Serena had no direction as  she meandered through the corridors, and finally thought to peek into  the dining room to see if any familiar faces were having breakfast.  They were not—she believed the entire royal family to be hidden away  in mourning, but a servant passing through asked Serena if she was  hungry and vowed to bring her some food. The servant looked grateful  for a purpose, no matter how small, and so Serena didn’t argue.  Besides, she’d barely eaten all the day before. Her appetite had been  gone, as she thought it still was, but when the servant returned with a  plate of bacon and gravy-covered biscuits, she devoured it greedily.

She considered going for a walk in the courtyards, but the gray sky  warning rain made her change her mind. She thought of calling on Lita,  Amy, or Mina, but knew they were probably still in bed, and even if  they weren’t, Serena was sure they preferred the company of their  husbands to her in this dark time. Serena desperately wished that she  had someone to curl up against, to hold, to be held by. For the first  time since she’d arrived in Aysel, she felt without purpose.

The morning dragged on as she dragged her feet through one hallway  after another. She was just considering braving the rain that hadn’t  yet fallen and making a trek into the Enchanted Forest to see if she  couldn’t stand in silent companionship with the dwarfs again, when she  noticed a familiar figure coming toward her.

Briar Rose either didn’t notice Serena or pretended not to as she  diligently walked down the hallway, opening every door and holding a  candle up, peeking her head inside, before closing the door and  continuing to the next. She was dressed in a fine white gown threaded  with pearls and had white rosebuds tied in her long, mint-green hair.  The vision, strikingly beautiful, reinforced Serena’s fantasy that the  castle was filled with ghosts.

“Princess, what are you doing?” Serena asked as Briar Rose came  closer.

“Looking for a spinning wheel,” the princess calmly answered without  bothering to turn her gaze to Serena. She pulled open another door,  held the candle inside for a moment, and then closed it again, neither  disappointed nor discouraged.

“What for?”

“Because today is my birthday.”

“Yes, but… why are you looking for a spinning wheel on the last day  when you should avoid them?”

“It is the last day that finding one will matter. I’m tired of  waiting for this curse to find me, so I thought I’d have better luck  searching for it.”

Serena watched as the princess strolled by her and opened another door.  Peering over the princess’s shoulder, Serena could see that the door  led to an unoccupied guestroom. Briar Rose held up her candle, casting  an orange glow on the bedposts, intensifying the shadows that loomed up  from the room’s corners. Satisfied that there was no spinning wheel  within, Briar Rose shut the door and continued on, the train of her  dress shuffling along the floor. From the back, Serena could see a row  of tiny lace-covered buttons running from the nape of the princess’s  neck to her low back and realized that the ornate dress was a wedding  gown.

“Briar Rose, Alex is locked away in the dungeons and Endymion has gone  to Cashlin to kill Beryl. If you prick your finger on that spinning  wheel, who exactly do you think is going to wake you?”

Briar Rose paused and lilted her head toward Serena, holding the candle  up so that Serena could see a whimsical smile on her lips.

“Lady Serena, my love has been wrongly accused of murder and will  likely hang for it, while my betrothed has gone off to face certain  death. I do not think anyone will wake me. In fact, I hope to sleep  forever.”

Serena watched the princess drift away, haunting the castle hallways  with her candle and long white dress. She knew of only one spinning  wheel in the castle—the one that Rumpelstiltskin had used to spin  straw into gold only a year ago, that the princes had discovered in a  game of hide and seek when they were young, that Serena had discovered  by accident. Briar Rose was heading in the opposite direction from that  secret room high in the tower, but at her steady and meticulous rate,  Serena had no doubt that she would eventually find it.

Turning on her heel, she thought she’d better get there first.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The suit of armor that Serena had accidentally knocked over—originally  showing her the entrance to the hidden staircase—had been stood up on  its stand, its gauntlet and shin reattached, if crookedly. The dings  and scuffs were blatantly obvious to her, but she thought a more  ignorant soul would not have noticed them without closer attention. She  wondered if Endymion had been the one to replace the armor in order to  once again hide the entrance to the small tower behind its protective  blue curtain. Had he realized, at the time, that this was likely the  spinning wheel that would eventually bring the curse of sleep to his  betrothed?

She slipped behind the armor and pulled the curtain back to reveal the  open doorway and dark stairwell. She soon wished that she’d thought to  grab a lantern for her ascent. The few tiny windows would hardly have  lit the tower on a sunny day, much less one so gray and gloomy. She  climbed to the top room and pushed open the plain wooden door and found  the round room lighter than the stairwell, though still cold.

There was an empty plate on the floor and she realized it was the one  she had brought to Endymion when he’d been polishing his sword. He’d  been so angry with her, with all of them, for choosing to go on the  crazy witch hunt to rescue Amy, that he’d refused to join them for  dinner, so she’d brought nourishment to him. He’d said that he wasn’ t hungry, but by the looks of the empty plate, he must have lied. That,  or the rats had gotten it.

A polishing rag was draped over the spokes of the spinning wheel and  two forgotten daggers lay in a nearby pile of straw. Serena thought  that Endymion must have been very distracted to leave his weapons lying  so carelessly around, but maybe he’d thought that there was simply no  threat to them in the secret room.

Serena sighed. The last time she’d been in this room, she had stood  right where she was and looked into his intense blue eyes and told him  that he was a coward, because he was afraid of love.

How wrong she had been.

He was the one who had claimed love for her. He was the one who had  asked for her hand in marriage.

And she was the one who was running away from him.

But it was only because she knew he didn’t mean it. He thought he  meant it, of course, but it was only a fantasy created by a spell. His  true love was Briar Rose. Andrew had seen their soul connection when  they were only children. Trista, the singing harp that could not lie,  had confirmed it. There could be no mistaking fate. The prince and his  betrothed should be lovers, should live happily ever after.

This silly fancy of Endymion’s was nothing more than a cruel trick,  meant to dissuade him from his true desire, his only chance for  happiness.

And that all would have been fine, if only Serena hadn’t felt it too.

She sighed and sat down at the spinning wheel, pushing the wheel with  her fingers and listening to it whir quietly in the otherwise silent  room. The vibrations loosened the polishing rag and it slipped off the  bars to the floor. Serena stopped the wheel and pulled bits of straw  and gold from the spokes.

Have you ever felt it? he’d asked. This passionate romance you believe  so strongly in?

She’d told him that she knew what love was, but she now knew that at  the time it had been a lie.

Not anymore.

She slid her hand serenely across the wood of the wheel, tracing the  curves and details of the spokes, then languidly moving up over the  empty bobbin and toward the needle, its silver point glinting against  the wood. She pressed her thumb along its skinny shaft, the edge  leaving a groove in her skin, and wondered how much pressure one would  need to put onto the unforgiving tip to draw blood, to enact a sixteen -year-old curse.

There were footsteps on the stairs, fast and heavy.

Serena gasped, jumping up from the wheel and wondering what she would  say if it was Briar Rose, how she would talk the princess out of what  she had planned, if it would make any difference at all.

She had not bothered to close the little wooden door. The footsteps  came closer, until a shadow appeared around the corner, and Serena  gasped, taking a step back—but her heel hit the base of the wheel.

Lord Grimm stepped onto the landing, breathing hard, his face flushed.  He froze when he saw her, his dark eyes going wide. One hand came up to  grasp at the tunic material over his chest, as if to calm his old  heart. The other hand went to the door’s frame to steady himself.

“You!” they both screamed.

Grimm recovered first and pointed one crooked finger at her. “You  should not be here!” he growled.

“Why? So no one will be here to stop you in your evil plan?”

The man looked like he wanted to come toward her, but he glanced  hesitantly at the spinning wheel and didn’t move. “Leave. You must  leave.”

“Were you coming to make sure that everything was prepared for the  princess? To make sure nothing would stop her from finding the spinning  wheel and completing the curse that you and Beryl gave her?”

Grimm gawked.

“That’s right,” Serena continued. “Andrew told me that you were the  one to change the curse from death to sleep. But did you really? Or did  you ensure that she would die after all? That there would be no saving  her?”

“What are you talking about?” he hissed, before again commanding,  “Get away from there!”

“You didn’t count on me putting a kink in your plan, did you?”

Grimm’s eyes were heated and frightened as they continuously shifted  between Serena and the spinning wheel. Finally, he seemed to make up  his mind and moved forward to grab her wrist, but Serena dodged away  from him and snatched up one of the daggers that had been left in the  straw.

“Stay away from me!” she yelled, brandishing the knife toward him.  Grimm took a startled step back.

“What are you doing, you stupid child? Put that down! Have you lost  your mind?”

“Don’t try to pull that innocence trick on me. I know all about you!  Everyone else in this kingdom may be blinded by your supposed good  deeds and protection of this world, but not me! I know you’re in  league with Beryl. I know you tried to kill Raye the other night, maybe  even helped Alex kill her yesterday, and I know you’re trying to kill  Briar Rose now, and I’m not going to allow it!”

Grimm’s jaw went slack. “What?” he sputtered. “What makes you—?  What are you—? Put that down and stop being ridiculous!”

“Do you really think I’m that stupid?”

“At the moment?” Grimm screamed, his wrinkled cheeks burning with  anger. “Whatever gave you the idea that I was working with that witch? ”

“Oh, drop the act,” said Serena, scowling. “It’s pretty obvious to  someone who isn’t biased in your favor like you’ve brainwashed  everyone here to be. Why else would you be prowling around Raye’s  room, only moments before she was attacked? And why would you tell  everyone that your brother was dead when he wasn’t? That’s right—I  know he’s alive; he was the one who sent me here! Besides, I saw Beryl  in your very own mirror, the first day that I arrived here. I saw her!  I know the truth and I’m not going to let you hurt anyone else!”

Grimm’s shoulders slackened. With a groan, he closed his eyes and drew  one hand slowly down his face. “Ignorant thing,” he muttered to  himself, before opening his eyes and looking at her with sympathy. He  inhaled a long breath. “Beryl was in my mirror because I have been  watching her for years, trying to pinpoint her next target, her next  move,” he explained, slowly as if to a child. “There were once five  magic mirrors, Serena. One is in Beryl’s castle, the same that she  uses to watch, and sometimes attack, her enemies. It was stolen from my  peer and friend, the lady called Mother Goose, many years ago, by a  great ancestor of Beryl. It was then passed through the generations,  each heir becoming stronger with the knowledge that the mirror brought  them, and more corrupted by their vanity and believed superiority.  Beryl inherited it at a very young age and has grown into the wickedest  woman who ever lived, and for the first time, one of the evil holder’s  of the magic mirror is in a position of power and nothing can stop her —except me, which is what I’ve been trying to do.”

Serena’s jaw flexed as she listened and searched his story for  falsities.

“One of the magic mirrors is the one that you saw in my cabin,” he  continued. “Two were destroyed, the two that had belonged to Charles  and Hans, shortly after they fell ill.”

“Lords Perrault and Anderson,” Serena mused, drawn in by Grimm’s  tale, but she did not lower the knife.

“Yes. We were afraid that with their deaths, the mirrors would be  vulnerable to theft as well and would fall into the hands of more evil.

“The fifth mirror went with Jacob, my brother, when he left. The two  mirrors kept by Beryl and myself are the only two left in this world.”

“And this is supposed to convince me to trust you… how?”

The man drew his brow down in a glare. “The mirrors are connected by  the same magic. Yes, they can look through the magic of any mirror in  existence, anything that acts as a reflective surface at all, but the  less clear the receptacle is, the less clear the image will be, and  even good, normal mirrors can be difficult to see through and take a  person of immense talent to get a vision at all, much less hold it for  long periods of time. Looking through another magic mirror, on the  other hand, is always clear. Therefore, while it is difficult for Beryl  to see into the mirrors of, say, a plain old vanity, it is very easy  for me to see into her magic mirror and watch everything she says to it  and does with it. It is my way of keeping an eye on her, so that when  she is ready to strike, I will be aware of it, and hopefully able to  stop it.

“That is why I was here when she tried to kill Raye with the corset. I ’d seen her preparing for it in the mirror.”

“But if you can see into her mirror, can’t she see into yours?”

“Of course she can! But what does that matter? She knows right where  to find me if she ever wanted to. I have nothing to hide from her and  she knows it.” His eyes darkened. “Except you. If she’d seen you  that first day that you arrived it would have been disastrous. The fact  that she saw you in the pond is bad enough. Thankfully, the image on  the reflective surface of a murky pond is nearly impossible to make out  and we can only hope she believed you to be Princess Snow White. With  any luck, she still doesn’t know that you’re here.”

Serena’s arm was starting to hurt from holding the knife’s weight.  Stepping back, she slowly withdrew it. The man hardly looked  threatening, standing there crooked and old and weary. “So that’s why  you were so mean to me? Why you wouldn’t let me inside? Because you  didn’t want Beryl to know I was here?”

He nodded.

“But that doesn’t explain why you told everyone that your brother was  dead, or why he went back to my world when this one was in so much  danger.”

Grimm scoffed as if the answer should have been obvious. “He went back  so that the fifth mirror would be safe should anything happen to mine.  And I told everyone he was dead so that everyone would believe it— including Beryl. She believes that I am the last storyteller. If  anything happens to me, Jacob will still be able to return and destroy  her, if she is not too strong for him. He may be Aysel’s last hope.”

Serena’s heart was beating quickly as she digested all he had told  her. She tried to think of other things he couldn’t explain away,  other evil deeds he had no alibi for, but she could think of nothing.

“So… you’re not working for Beryl?”

“Of course not! Now put that down, we must get out of here at once!  No, on second thought, hold onto it. You may need it.”

“Why? What’s going on?”

Grimm’s expression looked drawn and full of nerves. “She is coming,”  he whispered.

Serena’s breath caught. “Here?”

A flash of lightning lit the room, immediately followed by a rumble of  thunder that shook the tower walls. When the castle stopped trembling,  Serena ran to a window, hearing the splintering of wood and crumbling  of stone all around her. She looked down onto the red roofs of the city  just as a thick, eerie fog began to crawl through streets and alleys.  Dark like smoke, it filled up every inch of the town, flooding up over  the roofs and walls until only the uppermost chimneys and weathervanes  were visible above the haze.

“The fog…” Grimm muttered beside Serena.

“What does it mean?” she breathed. This was unlike any fog she’d  ever seen.

“It speaks of death.”

She glanced up at him, and Mina’s story of the storytellers came back  to her—the fog that lasted for twelve days, always ending with the  death of one of the storytellers. Gulping, she clutched the windowsill  and looked back to the city. Already the fog had lolled over the walls  and was invading the wheat fields that stretched to the horizon.

“Could Beryl summon such a thing?”

“No, she does not have the power—and the fog was haunting us long  before Beryl was even a thought in this world. If anything, I have  summoned this fog.”

Serena’s heart clamped and she instinctively stepped away from Grimm,  her hand tightening around the dagger’s handle again.

“Do not misunderstand,” Grimm added hastily. “My brethren and I wove  the coming of the fog into the fabric of this world when it was first  created. It was to be a warning sign, announcing when the death of one  of us was near so that we could take certain precautions.”

Serena shook her head. “And the sickness that killed the others?”

“Just a sickness,” Grimm murmured, an undertone of irony in his  voice. “Homesickness, perhaps.”

Serena felt a jolt beneath her feet and yelped, bracing herself against  one wall. Her hand reached for the windowsill again as the tower began  to shake. Grimm leaned out and looked down toward the garden below.

“But this,” he whispered through dry lips, “this, Beryl could  summon.”

Trembling, Serena leaned forward again, her eyes scanning the stone  walls of the tower, and watched as the marble pathways of the garden  began to break apart. The marbles splintered, the trees uprooted, and  winding, thorny vines began to grow up from the ground. They wound  their way over the gates and up the castle walls. They wrapped around  the garden figurines. They shattered the colored glass of the windows,  all the while climbing upward. Some vines were tiny and delicate,  others the width of tree trunks. Then—it began to rain, the droplets  falling into the thick fog and disturbing it into a swirling, stormy  layer of wisps and smoke—but it did not dissipate. The rain fell on  the creeping vines, slicking the stems, dripping from their sharp  thorns. The ground gave way as more briars came forth, covering the  castle until hardly a stone could be seen through their foliage.

Serena pulled back, heart thudding, as the first of the vines reached  the tower window. It snaked inside, winding up toward the wooden  rafters. Within moments more had joined it, some crawling past the  window on their way to the tower’s roof, others creeping inside. They  draped the walls, knotted around each other. Their thorns scraped at  the stone. When they reached the wooden door they tied around it,  pulling it partly off its hinges, before continuing down the walls of  the stairwell.

“What’s going on?” Serena cried, backing toward the spinning wheel  at the center of the room. Grimm stopped her with a hand on her upper  arm. She looked up at him. His eyes were full of fear.

“She’s here.”

Serena’s heart skipped.

“Beryl has arrived.”

Shaking her head, Serena pulled her arm away from him. “But Queen  Luna! Mina… everyone! We have to find them!” She took off running  down the stairs, trying to ignore the vines that reached for her,  shuddering each time a thorn snagged her hair. She was quicker than  them, though, and soon was down the stairs and bursting through the  blue corner to the windowless weapon’s room where no vines had yet  penetrated—but she knew it wouldn’t be long.

“No! You must not go out there! You’re in immense danger!” she heard  Grimm yelling behind her.

“We’re all in immense danger! That witch could kill the entire  castle!” she screamed back at him. Pulling the door open, she began  running as fast as she could toward the castle’s throne room.

The castle was filled with screams and servants running, terrified,  through the halls. Serena’s bare feet thudded against the carpets, her  black taffeta skirt billowed behind her as she ran. Maids and servants,  already shaken from the intruding vines, scurried out of her way.

When she reached the hallway that paralleled the enormous throne room,  she stopped to catch her breath and slipped through a curtain into a  small servant’s hall—passages that were hidden by doors and curtains  so that servants could perform their duties without being seen. Serena  hurried along the hall, listening for voices and footsteps. The passage  appeared to be deserted and at first she could hear nothing but her own  labored breathing, but soon muffled voices became apparent from the  other side of the stone wall and she slowed her steps to a walk, and  then a trembling creep. The voice that reached her was not familiar and  she strained to make out words.

“Bring me the huntsman,” commanded a woman whose tone was full of  calm, confidence, and disdain. Serena gulped and bunched up her skirt  to keep it from making noise on the stone floor.

“Yes, Your Majesty,” murmured a deep, disenchanted voice that Serena  was sure she recognized, but couldn’t place. She tried to press her  ear to the curtain without disturbing it but found that it didn’t  help. She needed to see inside the throne room, but dared not pull the  curtain back and risk exposing herself. There were footsteps leaving  the room. They had just begun to fade away into the main hall before  the woman—who could only have been Queen Beryl—spoke again.

“It has been a long time since last I had the pleasure of your  company, neighboring rulers. About sixteen years to be exact, if my  memory serves me. Luna, Your Highness, you look… well, older. I  sincerely hope that the next sixteen years will be kinder, though I  admit to having few expectations myself. And who are these two young  beauties? I don’t recall any daughters in the family lineage before.  Could it be that the rumors of fruitful marriages have not been  exaggerated? I’m so hurt at not being invited to join in the  festivities. Surely, the invitations were lost?” The saccharin voice  dripped with sarcasm.

Serena’s mind whirled. How had Beryl invaded so quickly, so  completely? Aysel had not even the chance to put up a fight.

Anxious to see who else being addressed by the evil queen, Serena  struggled to inhale and inched her fingers foreword to a heavy curtain.  She drew it back just far enough to peer through a tiny gap, grateful  that the material was heavy and hardly rippled at her touch.

A scarce few of the throne room’s surrounding wall sconces had been  lit—or rather, the majority of them had been smothered at the queen’s  arrival—filling the room with shadow. The curtained doorway where  Serena stood was slightly behind and to the right of the duel thrones.  All she could see of Queen Beryl, seated on Luna’s throne, was a lock  of flaming red hair and a pale hand with willowy fingers and long,  darkly-painted nails. Her dress’s sleeve, a rich purple, draped over  the throne in billowing folds that hung nearly to the carpeted platform  below.

A small crowd was gathered before the queen and Serena scanned their  faces, noting burly men in leather and chain mail—the queen’s guards —standing with arms crossed and eyes shifting around the room. Serena  shrank back whenever a pair of keen eyes would glance her way, but none  seemed to acknowledge the tiny gap in the curtains.

Of the prisoners, all of whom had been forced to kneel before the new  queen with bound wrists, Serena could see some maids and servants  trembling with bowed heads. The royal family, on the other hand, knelt  with straight backs and level chins, eyes fearlessly meeting the queen ’s gaze. King Artemis and Queen Luna both looked livid and ignorant of  Beryl’s taunts. The three remaining princes, Malachite, Nephlite, and  Zoicite, were each expressionless and stoic, and each had one guard  strategically stationed behind him with a sword to his throat. Serena  couldn’t help feeling relieved that Endymion had gone on his suicidal  crusade, otherwise he surely would have been captured with the rest of  his family.

In front of the crowd knelt Lita and Amy, and Serena was proud to see  that they, too, had an aura of rebellion about them. Even shy, quiet  Amy looked unwilling to be intimidated by the witch.

Lastly, standing beside the captured princesses was Andrew, with Hota  perched on his shoulder. They both had their arms folded, unchained, as  they watched the queen. Hope rose up in Serena. Certainly the two were  already plotting a way to rescue the royal family, and Seiya—who she  could not spot among the crowd—could be instrumental in a rebellion  against the evil queen if he was not yet discovered.

“And who are we missing?” Queen Beryl drawled, animatedly counting  out the prisoners before her with a pointed nail. “I believe we should  have one more wife here, for the oldest? The one with the uncanny  straw-spinning talent?”

“Princess Mina and her infant child could not be found, Your Highness.  We’re still searching for them,” said one of the soldiers, purple  bands on his shoulders denoting him as a high-ranking officer.

“Well, I imagine her husband must have some idea where she’s gotten  off to, wouldn’t you think? Why don’t you take him down to the  torture chambers and see if that won’t speed up the process?”

“Yes, Your Highness.”

“And if my memory serves me well, there were five princes before,  weren’t there? Oh, but of course, one was so recently dispatched by my  loyal minion. What a tragedy.” She laughed heartily at a joke that  darkened the expressions of the royalty before her. “But what of the  fifth, the youngest? The young man with the soul tie to the princess of  Obelia?”

“He could also not be found, Your Highness,” said the soldier.

“Then look harder,” the queen commanded, her soft, lulling voice  drastically sharpening.

“Your Majesty.”

Serena frowned, unable to see who had spoken, though sure she  recognized the ladylike voice.

“I’m afraid the youngest prince left the castle late last night,”  the voice continued. “He was heading to Cashlin with the intent to  kill you and avenge the death of Prince Jadeite.”

Then Serena’s eyes fell on the person who had spoken and she reeled  back in shock.

It was Hota, perched on Andrew’s shoulder, who had spoken.

Serena’s head spun. What purpose could Hota possibly have for sharing  this information with the queen? What could she be thinking?

“Endymion has left?” Beryl screeched, her fist clenching. “Why didn ’t you try to stop him?”

Andrew cleared his throat and bowed his head respectfully, not a hint  of disdain in his expression as he approached the queen’s throne.  “Your Ladyship, I assure you we did all in our power to ensure that  the entire royal family would be present for your arrival, but it’s  been a very trying few days for us and we were met with an unexpected  situation on the part of Prince Endymion.”

Serena could not still her quaking heart. Andrew and Hota had been  working to ensure the royal family was present? How? Why?

“What unexpected situation?” the queen roared.

“Well,” Andrew replied, folding his hands together, “judging from  the soul bond we originally noted between Endymion and the cursed  princess Briar Rose, I thought for sure that the bond would have been  strengthened and impenetrable at this age, so we took cares that Briar  Rose was brought to the castle so that she and Endymion could form a  romance prior to the onslaught of her curse, making the prince  unwilling to leave her side on this most precarious of days.”

“And how did your carefully constructed plot go awry?” Beryl seethed.

Andrew hesitated for only a moment before continuing. “It appears that  the soul bond between the prince and princess that was so clear and  evident in their youth is now… gone.”

“Gone,” the queen deadpanned, clutching the arm of her throne.

“Yes, Your Majesty. Their subsequent meetings have been rather lacking  in passion or romance. In fact, they both seem to have developed  romantic interests in other, unrelated parties.”

“I don’t care who they’ve developed romantic interest in!” Beryl  cried. “I do not need to remind you that Endymion is known to be the  strongest and quickest of his brothers, and the largest threat to my  place as queen. He is to be found and brought before meimmediately, or  it will be your head paying the price Is that understood?”

Andrew bowed, his expression ever complacent.

“Without question, Your Majesty.”

Chapter 26: Sleep
Scarcely had she touched the spindle when the magic decree was  fulfilled
and she pricked her finger on it and fell into a deep sleep.
from Brier Rose

Beryl’s anger was still seething when quick footsteps were heard at  the other end of the throne room. Serena shifted to see Seiya, his head  high, unchained like the other guardians. Her stomach sank, feeling an  immense weight of betrayal pushing down on her. Behind the Guardian of  Tragedy came two more guards dragging a chained and dirty Alex between  them.

“The huntsman, Your Highness,” Seiya drawled and Serena realized that  it was he who had first spoken when the queen had ordered for Alex to  be brought to her.

“Bring him closer.”

Alex was led to the platform and the queen stood as if to greet him.  Serena could now see her auburn hair falling in grand curls past her  waist, and how the purple silk of her dress perfectly hung on every  graceful curve.

“Ah, my most promising attendant,” the queen purred, cupping Alex’s  chin with her long fingers. “I have missed you painfully in the long  years that we’ve been parted. I have been unable to find any man,  young or old, that comes close to having your natural grace with a  sword, aim with a bow, or proficiency with a knife. You had such  potential, the favorite of all my pupils.”

She tenderly rubbed her thumb along his cheek, before drawing her hand  away and backhanding him across the face. Alex flinched, but the guards  held him in place.

“Until you met that tramp of a stepdaughter, of course,” Beryl fumed.  “Honestly, my darling Alex, it was such a simple task I’d beseeched  you with. Take the girl into the woods, kill her, and bring me her  heart. Tell me, how does one so highly recommended as yourself fail at  such an easy mission? Did the wretched girl cry and plead and beg,  softening your well-hardened heart with those big eyes of hers? Or did  she offer you free reign on that newly developed body of hers in return  for her life?”

Alex narrowed his steely blue eyes. “She was only a child,” he  replied in disgust, earning himself another resounding slap across the  face.

“Do not bestow her with innocence she does not deserve. She was well  aware of her charms! You would have served this world better by ridding  it of that unnatural beauty she was cursed with.”

“I would have served your vanity better. She meant no harm, to you or  anyone else, and you know that.”

Beryl raised her hand again at his insolence, but paused when met with  his fearless, unflinching gaze. Slowly, calmly, she lowered her hand to  her side and sat gingerly back on her throne. “No matter,” she said,  her tone once again enchanting. “Not every man is so easily swayed by  a pretty face. My much more loyal servant was finally able to finish  the job you could not. After all, what princess would ever expect one  of the kingdom’s very own guardians, innocently feeding apples to the  horses on a cold, gray morning?” She chuckled gleefully with a gesture  in Seiya’s direction. “And he was even able to dispatch of that  annoying prince who otherwise could have revived her—so they say. And  you, my dearest hunter, were so easy to frame for it all. A stolen  sword and a few well-placed rumors was all it took to have the entire  kingdom turned against you. I suppose I ought to thank you properly for  playing the role of scapegoat with such talent and ease.”

Her cackling filled the room and Serena slumped against the frame of  the curtained doorway, head swimming. So Alex was the huntsman who had  rescued Raye from her stepmother years before and then fled to safety  in the kingdom of Obelia. He was innocent, he’d been framed, and by  none other than Seiya and the other guardians, whom Serena had been so  sure were allies. Whom she’d never doubted, never questioned or  suspected. Whom she’d followed blindly, whom had been the true spies,  the true traitors of Aysel.

She couldn’t help going over every conversation she’d had with Seiya,  Andrew, and Hota, knowing now that they’d been planning on betraying  the royal family of Aysel from the beginning. Had she helped them  unknowingly? Had all she’d done to try and fix the ruined fairy tales  only made things worse? Perhaps if she hadn’t assisted Nephlite and  Zoicite in finding their true loves, Lita and Amy would be free from  Beryl’s clutches now. But what of the other mundane tasks they’d set  out for her? Rescuing Little Red Riding Hood from the wolf? Keeping  Bluebeard’s wife from being killed by the murderous merchant? Telling  Rini about the pea test so she could marry Elios Penelope? Had they  just been silly tasks to keep her out of the castle as much as possible  and prevent her from discovering the guardian’s secret? Or had they  also, in some random way, set the path for Queen Beryl’s ambush on the  kingdom?

Serena was shaking with anger. Never had she felt so dirty, so stupid,  so used. Silently, she swore that if it was in her power to set things  straight, she would. But she hadn’t any idea what to do. If only she  had more allies who were not in the queen’s clutches. If only she  could free the princes and everyone else. If only Endymion were there  to help.

“And what of your pretty little princess, the one you’ve been  employed in the protection of since our last meeting? Don’t tell me  that she’s fled the castle along with her betrothed?”

“Not to our knowledge,” Andrew answered for the huntsman. “But Briar  Rose was not in her guest quarters this morning. Guards are still  searching for her, as well as for Princess Mina.”

“I’d expected you to keep a very close eye on her, Andrew,” Beryl  pressed in a forbidding tone. “You’d better find her soon, and there ’d better be a spinning wheel nearby with a very sharp needle.”

Andrew bowed. “I assure you the curse will be fulfilled before  sundown, Your Highness. The princess has suffered from emotional trauma  the past couple of days. I don’t expect she would have gone far.”

“Trauma?”

“Romantic rejection, Your Highness, on more than one account.  Difficult enough for most girls, but devastating for one who has prided  herself on exceptional beauty, goodness, and grace.”

“Rejection from Endymion?”

“Yes, My Queen.”

“And what other account?”

“Your very prized hunter himself,” Andrew said, gesturing toward Alex  who wore a stony expression. “As I said, both Endymion and Briar Rose  fancied themselves in love with someone else. Briar Rose had developed  a fancy for her personal guard.”

Beryl turned her attention to the kneeling huntsman and raised her brow  in amusement. “Is that so?” she drawled, swirling one fingernail  along the arm of her chair. “And I suppose that her feelings went  unreciprocated due to his previous attachment to my stepdaughter?”

“Well… that’s what Briar Rose believed. I wrote a letter in Alex’s  name proclaiming his affection for Snow White. Of course I’d hoped  that it would end her attachment to him and enforce a love affair with  Endymion, which was unsuccessful in itself, and yet…”

Andrew was cut off by Beryl’s shrill laughter cutting through the  throne room. “You wrote her a letter? My darling underling, how you  delight me so.” Clapping her hands together, she leaned forward,  smiling mirthfully at Alex’s glare. “What makes it all so delicious  is the expression on your face. Andrew’s letter was quite unfounded,  wasn’t it? You’ve been accused of so much lately and I can see now  that this is by far the worst. To think! You, a lowly foreign hunter,  in love with Princess Briar Rose! And she with you! Oh, Andrew, you  have done well. You have done very well.”

Andrew modestly nodded his head.

“Now I only need to find the little wretch and make one difficult  decision: let her curse befall her and leave her to eternal nightmares,  or bring her here and kill her illicit lover before her very eyes?”  She cackled. “And then all three kingdoms will finally be mine, and I  will be known as the most beautiful queen there ever was.”

“Not only queen, Your Majesty,” added Hota. “But empress.”

“Yes, of course.” Beryl’s lips curled. “And I have not forgotten my  promise to my three faithful guardians. Very soon, your hard work will  be rewarded. Very soon…. Where is my mirror? Bring it to me.”

“It is here, Your Highness.” A guard answered. He and a companion  stepped forward carrying a medium-sized chest between them.

“Good,” said the queen, standing from her throne and approaching the  chest in languid steps. “Open it.”

The guards did as they were told and the queen reached inside with  giddy fingertips. “It will look so lovely in my new castle, don’t you  think, Queen Luna? Where do you think I should put it?”

Serena gulped, mesmerized, as Beryl pulled a square, wood-framed mirror  from the trunk. The wood was weathered and splitting, the glass covered  in dirt. It looked exactly like the small mirror that hung on Grimm’s  wall, in which Serena had first seen Beryl’s red-gold eyes. Her breath  caught to see them reflected again as Beryl’s face appeared in the  dark surface, her features ghostly and enchantingly beautiful, a smile  on her crimson lips.

“Yes, it will look lovely, indeed. Seiya, I have a new mission for  you.”

“Your Highness.”

“Bring me the last remaining magic mirror.”

Seiya quirked an eyebrow. “Lord Grimm’s mirror?”

“Yes, of course!” Beryl snapped. “And you are no longer to refer to  him as Lord. In fact, why don’t you bring the lunatic to me as well? I  have a few things I’d like to speak with him about. Well, what are you  waiting for? Go!”

Though he looked to harbor the slightest bit of uncertainty, Seiya  bowed and left the room.

“Andrew, you are to find me Princesses Mina and Briar Rose. Hota, find  Endymion. Kill him if you must.”

“There is one other, Your Highness,” Andrew interrupted.

Beryl paused, her eyes flashing. “One other?”

“Yes. She is called the Chosen One.”

Serena’s heart leapt.

“That girl from Grimm’s world? What of her? You told me she did not  pose a threat.”

“And she doesn’t,” assured Hota. “But nevertheless, she has on  occasion exemplified a sort of courage and loyalty that could upset  some of your plans, and she’ll surely try to free the prisoners and  prevent… well, everything it is we’re trying to do.”

“Truth be known, she has been rather useful to us to this point,”  Andrew pointed out. “As you well know, she assisted in finding the  hideout of Snow White and luring her to this castle. She was primarily  responsible for Prince Zoicite’s battle with Zoe the Witch and he  would have stayed blinded if it had not been for Amy. And of course,  she made it so very simple to frame Alex for the murders of Snow White  and Jadeite—almost as if she’d planned it herself. I must confess  that I was disappointed in her handling of the betrothal of Endymion  and Briar Rose, but in all other manners she has played right into our  plot, quite perfectly.”

Hota nodded. “The child is almost as dramatic as I am.”

“Fine,” Beryl said, waving a hand in disinterest, “bring her to me  as well.”

Hota and Andrew bowed and left the room, leaving the queen to smile  whimsically at her reflection. “Guards,” she added as an  afterthought, “take our captives to the dungeons. Make them  uncomfortable. And for Grimm’s sake, cut their hair.” Her twinkling  eyes shifted to Luna’s and Lita’s full, wavy locks. “I won’t have  any one else challenging my title of Fairest.”

Serena watched with dread as Beryl’s captives were pulled to their  feet and led away toward the dungeons. They all tried their best to  look brave and defiant, but there was no mistaking the fear in their  eyes. Serena knew that she had to find and warn those who hadn’t yet  been capture—Mina, Briar Rose, Lord Grimm—but she didn’t know where  to begin looking for them and knew that her chances of finding them  before one of Beryl’s guards were minimal at best. And she also needed  a way to save the others from the dungeons, but it seemed more  impossible still.

Running and hiding herself, which seemed the most logical course of  action, seemed equally ridiculous. She’d helped Beryl, ignorantly. She ’d bent to the guardians’ whims, done as she was told, and helped  bring this destruction down on Aysel.

Raye and Jadeite were dead. So many were imprisoned. And she was partly  to blame.

She had to set things right.

But determination was a far cry from skill. What she had of one she was  sorely lacking in another.

“Mirror,” Beryl purred, stroking the dirty glass with her knuckle. “ Snow White is dead, and soon so shall be Briar Rose. And I will be  Queen of all Kingdoms.” The mirror shimmered in response, momentarily  distorting the queen’s pale reflection. “Show me, Mirror of the  Tellers, who then will be fairest of them all.”

The glass darkened and distorted. Serena watched, entranced, and felt  that she was again looking into the well near the dwarfs’ cottage. The  queen’s shadowy reflection was outlined in a thin rim of silver,  before vanishing altogether in the fluid depths of the mirror. The  shadows dispersed, revealing a dark hallway, lined on one side with  stones and low-burning candle scones, on the other a royal blue  curtain. A dark shape beside the drapes came into focus as the candles ’ flames cast light onto long golden hair and a floor-sweeping black  dress. The girl had both hands wrapped firmly around the edge of the  curtain, her blue eyes peering past it. The small opening cast a sliver  of light down her otherwise shadowed face.

Serena gasped and clasped a hand over her mouth. Her likeness in the  mirror did the same.

“Who—?” Beryl screamed, then recognized the blue drapes in the  mirror and instantly sent her wild eyes darting around the room. “She ’s in here!”

“Over there!” a guard bellowed, noticing the ripples in the curtain  as Serena let it go.

She turned and sprinted; the footsteps of the guards weren’t long in  following her. Her mind reeled with the impossibility, the absurdity— the terror of being caught. Afraid to turn out into the main hallways  of the castle, she tore down the hidden servants’ halls on bare feet,  her heavy skirt billowing behind her. With every turn she took she  heard the guards catching up. She couldn’t stop. Couldn’t slow.  Couldn’t look back.

But she had nowhere to go.

Every passage looked the same. More stone walls closing in on her. More  flickering sconces filling the corridors with shadows. Then, ahead, she  saw movement and slowed only for a moment before realizing it was not a  person that was coming her way, but a wall of snakelike vines spreading  like a plague through the halls. The thorns that had claimed the castle  had reached this far into its depths and showed no sign of relenting.  Serena cried out and took the first turn she saw, barreling ever deeper  into the heart of the castle. The guards, the queen, the thorns, all  relentless.

A hand grabbed her wrist.

Swallowing a scream, Serena whirled around, prepared to fight.

“Serena!” Mina cried breathlessly, pulling Serena into a storage room  and shutting the door behind her.

“Mina!”

The princess clapped a hand firmly over Serena’s mouth and stood  listening at the door. Serena offered no resistance, panting for breath  and holding a hand to her cramping side. They heard startled voices  down the hall as the guards encountered the briars, then the shouting  of orders. A moment later footsteps came crashing down the hallway.  Serena squeezed her eyes shut as they came closer, the force of their  stampede making the floor vibrate beneath her.

But then they passed by and the sounds echoed away down the hall.

Mina took her hand away and Serena collapsed to the floor, shaking.

“They’ll be back,” warned the princess. “We can’t stay here.”

“But where can we go? Beryl’s guards are searching the entire castle  and those thorns—”

“We’re going to leave the castle,” answered Mina. “We’ll have to  go through the thorns, so take this.” She reached behind her and  grabbed a short sword, passing it to Serena. Serena took it without  question, though her face betrayed her surprise. She noticed a scabbard  on Mina’s hip. The princess then bent down and reached into the  shadows, emerging with a large bundle in her arms—her quietly sleeping  baby girl. “Once we’re out of the castle, you’re going to take  Cytherea to Lord Grimm, tell him what’s happened and get him to come  help us.”

“Me? What are you—?”

“I’m going to rescue my husband.”

It was clear that Mina had already set her resolve. Serena shook her  head and forced herself to stand. “Mina, Lord Grimm is already here,  in the castle.”

Mina’s jaw dropped and it was a mixture of disbelief and hope that  swept over her face. “Here? You’re sure?”

“Yes, I was with him earlier, just before Beryl. . . . Unless he’s  since escaped, but he was here.”

Mina clutched her daughter to her chest. “Then he must already be  working to save us. He’ll make everything right.”

The churning returned in Serena’s stomach and she leaned her head  against the door. She didn’t think they should rely on Grimm to be  their savior, but she couldn’t bear to say it.

“Mina, you have to get out of here. Both of you. I’ll stay and find  Grimm and we’ll rescue Malachite and the others.”

It looked as though Mina would question Serena’s promise. “Are you  sure?”

“Yes. I am the Chosen One, Mina. This is my duty.”

The battle on Mina’s face was clear, but she slowly conceded, fear  overcoming her expression. “There’s an exit behind the kitchens. It  doesn’t get used very often and it isn’t far from the west gate. I’m  sure the thorns have already taken over the gardens but I think I can  get us through. I’ll get Cytherea somewhere safe and then see if I can  find someone to help.”

“Be careful.”

Mina forced a smile and shifted Cytherea to one arm before squeezing  Serena’s hand. “Serena, I’m so glad you came to save us.”

The confidence Mina bestowed sent guilt tearing through Serena’s  nerves. She was grateful the princess had no idea how much trouble  Serena had caused.

“We better go before they come back.”

“You’ll be able to find your way?”

“I think so,” Serena said, slowly opening the door and peering into  the softly-glowing hallway. “It’s clear. Let’s go.”

“I’m going this way.” Mina drew her sword and gestured to the right.  With her eyes still adjusting to the light, Serena could see nothing  but a hallway that disappeared into darkness.

“Good luck,” she whispered, attempting the most courageous smile she  could and gripping her own sword.

The princess nodded. “We’ll be together again soon,” she returned  warmly, before slipping down the hallway. Dressed all in black, she  soon melted into the shadows. Serena hoped she would be as invisible as  she darted the other way.

Afraid to make noise, she crept along the servant hallways, breathing  as quietly as she could and straining to hear any footsteps or voices,  though the castle was eerily silent. She found that fewer and fewer  corridors were free from the intruding vines. She tried to pick her way  toward the northeastern areas of the castle, where she had last seen  Lord Grimm, without running into the thorns, but when she came to a  fork in which the briars could be seen twisting and writhing in every  direction she realized that such a fate was unavoidable. She hoped that  at least the queen’s guards wouldn’t be apt to follow her in.

She took a moment to curse the morning’s naïve decision to leave her  room without shoes or slippers, then raised the sword and plunged into  the branches.

The vines swung from the ceiling, grabbing and clawing at her hair as  she edged past. Tendrils whipped across her ankles, tearing the lining  of her dress and leaving scratches on her calves. As she slashed the  sword through the most robust of branches, she was relieved to see  others slink away from her, shriveling and clinging tight to the stone  walls. The hallway became darker as she proceeded, the vines having  extinguished most of the sconces that lined the walls, but passing the  occasional briar-covered window let through streaks of gray light.  Branches crunched beneath Serena’s feet and she flinched at each one,  knowing that she was leaving a trail of blood where she stepped. There  was the constant sound of leaves brushing leaves; vines snaking and  creaking against the stone; her dress shuffling and snagging; her  shallow breathing.

With a grunt, she chopped through another large branch barring her path  and stepped over the fallen limb, panting at the exertion from swinging  the cumbersome weapon. Looking ahead, she could see the outline of a  door hidden behind a layer of creepers and knew that she couldn’t go  on much farther in the infested hallway. Though she knew that there was  no area of the castle that was completely safe from the vines, she  hoped that being back in the main passages of the castle would at least  allow her breathing room and she would be able to move at a quicker  pace.

If there weren’t any guards, that was.

Reinvigorated, Serena braced herself and pushed forward, chopping at  the vines with renewed vigor. It took her a moment to cut away the  brambles that enclosed the door but it swung open easily once they were  gone. On the other side was a wall of thorny vines that instantly began  slithering in toward her. Serena wasted no time in cutting them down  and rushing into the hallway. There was no life in sight, save the  thriving plants. Nevertheless, the view through a shattered window  allowed Serena to orient herself and she knew she was close to where  she had last seen Grimm, though she had no idea where he could have  gone since.

Another sinking feeling. The eerie brambles, the forlorn castle, that  evil witch having power over so many good people all made Serena feel  sick with desperation. Inadequate. Alone.

But then her eye caught on a door not far off. It was open, which she  knew was strange in itself, and it took her a moment to determine what  was even more odd about the door. She kicked at a branch as she  approached it, trying to place the feeling that something was very  unusual about the door, hanging innocently open among the vines.

And then she knew as a bramble began to wind its way around the door  frame. This door was not completely covered in vines as everything else  was, and many of the branches beside it looked recently severed.

It had not been open for long.

Gulping, Serena tightened her hold on the sword and crept inside,  hoping beyond hope that it was Lord Grimm who had cut the branches  away.

Serena paused when she found herself in the familiar weapons room, the  same in which she had knocked over the suit of armor so many days  before. The weapons room with the hidden doorway, the secret tower.

The brambles were quieter here, having staked their territory among the  shields, spears, and bows. Some armor suits had been toppled over,  others were wrapped up like mummies in green-brown bandages.

The curtain that had draped the walls hung in shreds from the boughs,  revealing the tower’s staircase. Brambles that had once covered the  open doorway lay broken on the floor.

She wondered if Grimm had returned here thinking that Serena would meet  him. It made some sort of sense, she reasoned, stepping across the  threshold and inching up the staircase. The stairs wound upward, dark  and filled with the sounds of shuffling vines. But compared to the  organic, thriving mess that had been the servants’ hallway, the  staircase felt stagnant. The vines drooped from the ceiling and stuck  to the wall, but were not growing, burrowing, reaching out for the  anything else to entwine around. As she climbed, Serena wondered if  this was how the whole castle would feel once the vines had taken over.  She wondered if Beryl wanted it this way, to sit forever vain and  beautiful in her castle of thorns.

She reached the top of the stairs. Her breath caught as she walked into  the room.

“Briar Rose!”

The princess turned calmly to Serena. “You’re very loud.”

She was seated at the spinning wheel, her full white wedding dress  gathered around her. The hem was lost in the carpet of straw and thorns  beneath her.

“How did you find this place?” Serena asked, stepping toward the  princess.

“I looked in every door.”

“But the vines…”

Briar Rose lifted her eyes to the walls and ceiling, admiring the ivy- covered stone. “Yes, it was frightening at first, but they seem to  leave you alone, as long as you leave them alone.” She paused. “I  also had a knife.”

“Oh…” Serena murmured, looking at the needle at the tip of the  spinning wheel. “Briar Rose, I think you should not be so close to  that.”

A sad smile appeared on the princess’s lips as she returned her gaze  to the needle. She reached her hand toward it and Serena flinched, but  the princess merely brushed her finger along the shaft. “This? Whyever  not?”

Irritated, Serena crossed her arms. “This isn’t funny. We have to  leave,now. Beryl’s taken over the castle, she’s taken a bunch of  prisoners, and I need to find Grimm so we can fix this whole mess. I  don’t really need a sleeping princess on my hands, so if you could  just step away from the spinning wheel and come with me—”

“I will be less of a burden to you this way,” Briar Rose interrupted,  taking her hand away from the needle and gently grasping one of the  wheel’s ornate spokes.

“That’s not true. Maybe you can help me. You can outwit the curse,  Briar Rose. You don’t have to prick your finger. Come with me and you  can give Beryl a piece of your mind, tell her that her silly curse isn ’t going to control you, that you can do whatever you want!”

Briar Rose laughed heartily and raised twinkling eyes to Serena. “You  think that is true? How naïve you are. We cannot prevent this any more  than we can prevent death. That is the meaning of a curse. Even if I  decided to try and fight it, to stand up and leave, I would inevitably  trip on my skirts and grab the spindle for balance and prick myself  then. Or a random wind would push the spinning wheel over and the  needle would scratch my ankle as I left. The curse will find me. It  cannot be avoided.”

Pursing her lips, Serena inched forward. The princess looked  unconcerned, smiled at her, and stepped on the little pedal beside the  wheel. With a gentle push, the wheel began to spin on its axel,  whirring and creaking from age. “This is the first time I’ve seen one  of these. They were banned from my kingdom after my blessing ceremony. ”

“Maybe you’re right,” Serena said, quieting her tone in hopes of  coaxing the princess away. “Maybe the curse can’t be avoided. But why  make it easier for it to find you? Why not at least try to escape it?  You know that Endymion’s gone, and with these briars I don’t think he ’ll be able to get in and—”

“Endymion! I would rather sleep for all eternity than be kissed by  him!”

Serena paused, taken aback. “Don’t you think that’s a little harsh? ”

“If love’s first kiss is a result of that union then love is a lie  and I want no part of it.”

“Oh, but Alex!” Serena exclaimed.

Briar Rose cringed at the name. Reaching out, she grabbed hold of the  spinning wheel.

“I should have told you—he didn’t kill Raye and Jadeite!”

Furious blue eyes met Serena’s. “Of course he didn’t kill them! Did  you think I believed it for a moment?”

“But… it’s just that it’s proven…”

“And what does that change for me? He is still locked away, still a  prisoner. Where before he was sentenced to death by the King and Queen  of Aysel, now he will be sentenced to torture and worse by the Queen of  Cashlin. I still cannot save him, and he still cannot save me. Princess  Snow White is still dead. Prince Jadeite is still dead. I am still  cursed. And my love—” She paused, panting from anger and withheld  tears. “My love still does not love me.”

Wringing her hands, Serena said, “He didn’t write the letter. It was  a fake.” At Briar Rose’s baffled expression, she continued, “The  letter was written by Andrew, in an attempt to break your connection to  Alex and ignite a romance between you and Endymion. He thought that  Endymion being in love with you would ensure that he would be here when  Beryl arrived.”

“Andrew, the Guardian of Romance?”

“Yes.”

“Why would he want Endymion to be here when Beryl arrived?” The  princess’s frown deepened. “How would he know that Beryl was coming  at all?”

“Because the guardians are working for Beryl.”

Briar Rose gaped. “That’s impossible! The guardians work for Lord  Grimm. Everyone knows that.”

“Everyone’s wrong. I saw them with my own eyes, bowing to Beryl. I  heard them explain what they had done to assist her in taking over  Aysel. How they had twisted the stories to help her…. How they had  used me to help her.”

Lowering her eyes, the princess smoothed down the skirt of her dress,  slowly shaking her head in disbelief. “But they blessed me, when I was  a baby. They were good. They helped Lord Grimm. Why would they have  chosen to work for Beryl?”

“I don’t know. But they did. And they’ve done so many horrible  things, I’m sure I don’t even know the half of it. Seiya was the one  who killed Raye and Jadeite. And Andrew wrote the letter that broke  your heart.

“Don’t you see, Briar Rose? If Alex didn’t write that letter, maybe  he really does love you after all. If you have something to live for,  don’t throw it away now. Besides, that is what Beryl wants you to do.  You would be helping her win.”

“But it’s a curse. I can’t avoid it. I can’t just wish it away.”

Serena smiled and held out a hand to the princess. “But you can try,  can’t you? Maybe together we can fix this mess. Maybe we can rescue  Alex.”

Briar Rose looked at Serena’s outstretched hand, then slowly slid her  gaze to the needle glowing silver in the room’s dim light.

“All right,” she finally whispered, looking at the needle like an  enemy. “I’ll try.” With slow, measured movements, she gathered her  skirt up around her legs and set each slippered foot carefully amongst  the brambles. Her eyes met Serena’s again as she lifted herself from  the seat of the spinning wheel. Though they were barely a few feet  apart, the distance between them felt suddenly cavernous. When the  princess reached out and took Serena’s hand, relief stirred in both of  them.

“That wasn’t so hard, was it?” Serena said, her smile brightening.  Briar Rose grinned in agreement. “Now let’s get out of here, shall  we?”

As Serena turned toward the doorway, Briar Rose stepped forward to meet  her, then gasped as she felt her dress catch beneath her.

“What is it?”

“My dress, it’s caught on the thorns.”

Serena looked down and noticed that, indeed, the vines had sneaked  along the folds of the pristine gown, pinning it to the floor.

“Hold still, I’ll get it,” Serena said, kneeling down to untangle  the skirt.

“Don’t try to save it,” Briar Rose urged when Serena was too ginger  with the satin material.

With a nod of agreement, Serena grabbed a fistful of the skirt and  tried to rip it away from the thorns, but more seemed to grow up and  pierce the material with each seam that was set free. Panicking, Briar  Rose bent to help her, each desperately grasping and pulling on the  material until there was a loud rip and the princess screamed and began  to fall backward from the momentum.

“No!” Serena shouted, reaching out to push the needle away, then  crying out in pain as the needle’s sharp tip punctured her finger.

Briar Rose collapsed against the spinning wheel, mere inches from the  spindle and stared, panting, as Serena fell to her knees.

“Serena, thank you. You saved me.”

But the words were muffled in Serena’s dizzy head as she looked at a  drop of blood rising from the tip of her finger. She raised unfocused  eyes to the princess and felt suddenly sick as the room spun beneath  her.

Briar Rose frowned, reaching forward to steady Serena by the shoulders.  “Serena, what’s wrong?”

Blinking, Serena tried to reach toward the princess, but her arm felt  heavy and the princess seemed to be fading quickly before her. Her  eyelids sunk, her breathing slowed. With a sigh, she fell back onto the  bed of ivy. The thorny vines rose to entwine around her as she settled  among them, fast asleep.

The princess gawked, trembling, and slowly turned to the needle. It  glistened innocently as she raised her hand and pushed her index finger  against the sharp tip.

A drop of blood flowed up from her skin.

And nothing more.

Chapter 27: Sanctuary
“The poor man already had the door open and asked the
traveler to enter. ‘Stay the night with me,’ he said. ‘It’ already
dark, and you won’t be able to go much farther tonight.’”
from The Poor Man and the Rich Man

It was the cold autumn air that woke Princess Cytherea. Crouching next  to the castle wall, Mina held the baby to her chest and cooed softly,  urging the little princess back to sleep, but for a long while she  couldn’t stop the whimpering. Afraid to move away from the safety  provided by the thick briars until Cytherea was silent, Mina stayed put  and rocked and hummed and kept her eyes darting around for any sign of  movement beyond the thorns.

But the gardens appeared deserted. The vines that had sprouted from the  ground were clustered several feet thick, providing barely enough room  for Mina and her daughter to squeeze through as she made her way toward  the wall’s entrances. Branches and thorns grabbed at her cloak, but it  was not the foliage she was afraid of. She was terrified of running  into one of Beryl’s guards. Of being kidnapped and thrown into the  dungeon as the rest of the royal family had been. Of having her  beautiful daughter snatched away.

Night had come and the rain clouds had moved on, but a misty fog still  hung above the kingdom. Nevertheless, a harvest moon was trying its  best to break through the fog, caressing the highest vines and leaves  with traces of gold. The world had never seemed so eerie as it did with  the moon peering down like a yellow eye, watching. Mina lurked behind  the wall of vines and tried to make out familiar shapes in the shadows.  Most of the beautiful topiaries had been uprooted from the soil when  the briars had taken over, leaving the ground littered with broken  stems and crushed blossoms—all glittering with misty condensation.

After nursing the child, Mina cocooned Cytherea in the blanket and  forced herself to continue trudging through the brambles. She knew that  they were getting close to a garden gate and hoped that once they were  through she would find the town just as deserted of guards. And she  desperately hoped that the townspeople were unharmed—though likely  scared out of their wits. Mina would have no time to comfort them or  give guidance, though. She had a mission to fulfill.

What branches Mina could skirt around, she did, always saving the sword  as a last resort and stepping as carefully and quietly as she could.  But her caution seemed unwarranted as the castle gate finally came into  view. Mina paused and peered into the darkness. There were no henchmen  in sight. The castle windows, mostly shattered by the vines, were dark.  Beyond the gate’s intricate wrought-iron motif she could see the town ’s cobblestone street—the houses looked peaceful and unharmed  compared to the ravaged castle. Most windows harbored a single burning  candle.

Mina withheld the urge to run for the gate. Her muscles tensed at every  cracking branch. Her eyes stung from the cold. She reached the stone  wall and turned to look at the castle. The thorns had left a clear path  along the road that led from the town into the castle, arching over it  like a tunnel, and the huge iron-barred oak door was the only part of  the castle not covered. Surely, it was now the most vulnerable part of  the whole structure, and yet none of the queen’s soldiers appeared to  be guarding the entrance.

Turning, she looked at the gate again, dark and forbidding, yet the  light from the town filled her with thoughts of safety, knowing that  they were so close….

The gate was closed. She would need to leave the sanctuary of the  thorns to unhook the latch. Determined, she braced herself and cast a  lingering look at the castle—its empty windows, its massive, closed  doorway—and stepped tentatively out onto the open pathway.

The clopping of horse’s hooves stopped her. She bolted back against  the brick wall, a thorn catching the flesh of her cheek as she did so.  Biting her lip against the pain, she knelt down with Cytherea in her  arms and listened.

The galloping got louder on the cobblestone street until the horse came  to a stop just outside the gate. Mina held her breath as she heard a  rider dismount, heavy boots landing with a thud on the ground. The  horse whinnied and snorted. A gloved hand reached through the bars of  the gate and shook—the gate rattled, breaking the spell of silence in  the garden and sending Mina’s heart into her throat, but the latch  held. She heard a muffled curse and, after another angry shake of the  gate, the gloved hand withdrew and it sounded as though the rider was  preparing to mount his horse again.

But then the grating of wood on stone resounded from the castle—the  great oak door was opening. Mina tried to shrink farther back into the  shadows. A moment later, a short, slender figure with pale blonde hair  came charging out of the castle, marching toward the gate. The moon’s  golden halo caught on pointed ears and Mina stifled a gasp at  recognizing Andrew, Guardian of Romance, coming down the walkway. Her  thoughts swam—how could he possibly have gone unnoticed by the queen  for so long, and still be wandering through the castle? And where was  he going? And was he aware of the rider lurking outside the castle  gates?

She thought that she should warn him, but a quick glance back at the  castle door alerted her to two of Beryl’s guards standing watch, their  eyes locked on the elf, and she held her tongue. If Andrew had been  taken prisoner and was now under the control of Queen Beryl, she had no  way of helping him—at least, not now. Her best option was still to  escape from the castle grounds unseen.

“How good to see you, old pal!” Andrew called out, his cheery smile  unsettling in the midst of thorns and fog. “Did you have a nice ride? ”

“Why are the gates locked?” the rider asked moodily. “Who do you  think is going to try to get in?”

Andrew chuckled and withdrew the latch, holding the gate open as the  rider swept inside. Mina studied the figure, tall and wide-shouldered  and dressed in a black hooded cloak.

“You never know. Endymion is still out there somewhere.”

The rider turned toward Andrew and pulled down his hood. Mina felt a  rising of relief—and yet utter confusion—to see Seiya’s piercing  gray stare focused on the elf. So the rider was a friend, not foe, and  yet if he had been free from Beryl’s domain, out beyond the castle  walls, why had he returned without bringing help? And why were the two  guardians talking so freely in front of Beryl’s henchmen?

Seiya scoffed. “We do not need to worry about him,” he drawled,  before turning back toward the guards and nodding his head. In  response, one came scurrying down toward the guardians and—to Mina’s  astonishment—bowed to them both, before grabbing the horse’s reigns.  He led the animal back toward the castle, unable to get to the stables  through the thorns, while Seiya pulled off his gloves.

“Did you find the old man?”

“No. Nor the mirror.”

Andrew’s smile faltered. “Did you search for it?”

Seiya shot him an icy glare and began marching toward the castle’s  door.

“Well, she’s not going to be happy, you know,” Andrew said. “I hope  you brought her something worthwhile.”

“I did.”

“And what would that be?”

Seiya paused to hand his cloak and gloves to the waiting guard.

“I killed Endymion.”

Mina watched, wide-eyed, disbelieving, as the guardians disappeared  into the castle, shutting the door behind them. She could hardly  breathe. Her strength left her and she collapsed to the ground.

Malachite imprisoned.

Beryl on the throne.

Endymion dead.

And the guardians working for that witch!

Tears pricked at her eyes. The first bout of helplessness washed over  her.

But then Cytherea began to cry. Drawn from her reverie, Mina spent only  a moment hushing the child, before looking up toward the gate.

They hadn’t bothered to shut it.

She had the power to do one thing; save her baby girl. Standing, she  checked that there was still no sign of life coming from the castle,  before darting past the gate and running as fast as she could.

The town at first seemed devoid of life as Mina hurried through it, the  candles in the windows burning low as if forgotten. But as Mina got  farther from the castle, things changed. The window shutters were shut  and the uncovered windows had drapes drawn, though Mina thought she saw  shadows moving behind them. Running past one house she heard a woman  snap, “Come away from that window this instant!”

Mina realized that the townspeople with homes nearest the castle had  fled in terror. She figured that many had chosen to stay with more  distant neighbors.

These were her people, peers in her youth and now loyal subjects, and  Mina wished that she had some comfort to give them. Some advice to  offer, or at least the time for an explanation. But if they knew the  answer, that the infamous Queen Beryl of Cashlin had occupied the  castle, there would be even wider spread panic. And of course, Mina  couldn’t take the chance that word would get back to Beryl of her  escape.

By the time Mina reached the outskirts of town and found herself  trotting along the dirt pathway stretching into the western fields, the  moon had risen high overhead and returned to its ghostly silver hue.  The fog was thinner over the rolling farmlands.

Cytherea, cold and tired, was crying openly. As Mina rounded the first  bend in the road, the lights from the town disappearing in the mist,  she slowed to catch her breath.

“Almost there,” she murmured to Cytherea. “Then I’ll feed you and  clean you and you’ll be safe.” When the baby wailed louder, Mina  hugged her to her chest. “I know, you want your daddy. I do too.”

Cutting through familiar fields that she hadn’t tread in over a year,  Mina made her way through the miles of mud and stalks. As the moon  began to dip toward the horizon, Mina finally saw a farmhouse amid the  wheat. Just beyond it, the forest that divided the kingdoms of Aysel  and Cashlin loomed foreboding in the misty night.

There was a single candle burning in a window and the smell of smoke  from a woodstove permeated the air. Mina discovered tears on her cheeks  as she approached the old wooden door and knocked.

She heard scuffling and the creaking of floorboards. Then the door  swung open and a fireplace poker appeared at her chest.

“Who’s there?” a man bellowed.

Mina reeled backward. Jolted awake, Cytherea began crying again.

“Papa!” Mina cried.

The man lowered the poker suspiciously and peered at Mina from beneath  thick gray eyebrows. “Mina? Is that you?”

She nodded, filled with sudden joy—and exhaustion.

“Mina!” He dropped his weapon and threw his arms around his daughter.  “And who…?”

“Papa, meet your granddaughter, Princess Cytherea.”

He inhaled a long breath and pulled the blanket away from the baby’s  red, tear-streaked face. “She’s beautiful. I’d heard about you  having your baby, but the blessing ceremony…”

“I wanted to invite you, but so much was happening, and that dwarf…. ”

“It’s all right, it’s all right…. Can I hold her?”

Mina nodded and passed the child to her father, shushing as she did so.  “She’s cranky now. We’ve both had a long night and she needs to be  changed.”

“Ah, leave the dirty job for me, did you?” the man joked, stepping  back into the warm house. Mina followed, glad to rest her arms from  Cytherea’s weight, and closed the door on the cold, moonlit fields.

“Denise! Danielle! It’s safe! Come say hello to your sister!”

A moment later, a round face framed in large brown ringlets popped out  from behind a door on the other end of the room. “Mina?”

“Hello, Danielle.”

“Well, in the name of Grimm, what are you doing here? And why are you  wearing that awful black dress? That isn’t your color at all.”

Not knowing if she should laugh or cry, Mina threw her arms around her  sister. “It is good be home.”

“It is?” Danielle screwed up her face and pushed Mina to arm’s  length. “Mina, what’s going on? You’ve never hugged me before. We  don’t even like each other.”

“Don’t be silly, we’re sisters. We love each other. I have missed  you.”

“But we were so mean to you after Mother died!”

“All’s forgiven. It was my own fault for letting you boss me around.  Where’s Denise? I want to see her, too.”

Danielle snorted and rolled her eyes. “She’s in the bedroom, doing  unknown things with a man she’s certain is her soul mate—whether he  wants to be or not.” At Mina’s shocked look, Danielle giggled and  waved her hand. “Don’t worry, he’s sleeping, but Denise won’t leave  his side until he wakes.”

“Nonsense!” their father cried, still coddling Cytherea despite her  constant cries. “She should leave that poor boy alone and get in here  and meet her niece. Look, Danielle, Mina’s brought my grandchild to  see us. Denise! Get in here! Really, it’s amazing that boy can sleep  at all with all this racket.”

“What boy?” Mina asked, but Danielle ignored her to admire the  chubby-faced baby.

“Oh, how lucky! She looks like me!”

“She looks nothing like you!” Mina snapped.

With a laugh, Danielle chucked Mina on the chin. “It was a compliment,  baby sister. But what is going on at the castle? Why are you here, in  the middle of the night, and you look like you stumbled into a thorn  bush! And there was an earthquake yesterday, late morning, did you feel  it? They say it came from the castle—of all places! And this terrible  fog, just like the stories….”

“Don’t any of you realize that our guest is trying to sleep?”  screamed the third sister as she came traipsing through the doorway.

“Denise, your sister has come to visit!”

“Yes, Papa, I heard. It’s just that I thought they would teach you  better manners in that big castle of yours. Honestly, who shows up  unannounced in the dead of night? And shouldn’t you have an escort?”  Denise let her eyes wander over her youngest sister. “And you look  awful.”

“It’s wonderful to see you too.”

Denise folded her arms and glowered, before harrumphing. “Yes, yes, I  suppose it is nice to see you. But you could have chosen a better  night. I’m busy!”

“Look at your niece.”

“Yes, Papa, she’s lovely. And very loud. And stinky. Shouldn’t  someone change her?”

“She should be changed,” agreed Mina, collapsing into a rocking  chair. “But I don’t know that I have the energy.”

“Bah, royal life has made you lazy, I see.”

“Denise, stop picking on your sister. She isa princess, after all, and  deserves a little bit of respect. Mina, you just rest there. I’ll take  care of my darling grandchild. Denise, why don’t you start a pot of  tea?”

“What? And serve her? Absolutely not. Make Danielle do it.”

“But I want to hear Mina’s tale. Can’t you see on her face that  something has happened?” Danielle sat herself on the table beside Mina  and cupped her chin in her palm.

Denise glanced at Mina, quirking an eyebrow. “Is she right? Has  something happened?”

Mina slumped back in the rocking chair and covered her face with her  hands. “Yes. Something terrible. Beryl has taken over the castle. She ’s captured everyone—Luna and Artemis and… and even Malachite…. I  don’t know what she will do to them and it’s all so helpless!”

“Beryl! Queen Beryl? Oh, Mina!” Danielle kneeled before her younger  sister, grasping her hands. “That’s awful! What about the  townspeople?”

“She hasn’t gone after them, yet. I don’t know what she plans to do.  She has the castle surrounded in this huge thorny hedge. It was a  miracle I escaped!”

“Someone has to tell Lord Grimm,” Denise said.

“He was in the castle when it happened.”

There was a mutual gasp. “He wasn’t captured too, was he?”

“I don’t think so—but I don’t know for sure. It’s been hours since  I got away. Who knows what’s happened since?”

“What are you going to do?”

“I don’t know. I had to get Cytherea to safety. And now… now I don’ t know.”

“Well you’re exhausted. You can’t do anything in this condition,”  her father suggested. “I’m going to put little Cytherea to bed and I  expect you to follow. We’ll all think better in the morning.”

“I can’t sleep! Not while Malachite is locked up in the dungeon, and  all my friends…”

“Malachite in a dungeon?” a drowsy voice murmured from the hall. Mina  looked up as a young man entered the room, rubbing sleepy eyes.

She jolted to her feet.

“Endymion!”

Endymion stalled, looking instantly more awake. “Mina?”

With a cry, Mina threw her arms around her brother-in-law. “I heard  you were killed!”

“You know him?” asked Denise.

“Mina, what are you doing here?” Endymion asked, patting Mina’s back  and looking around the unfamiliar room. “Where are we?”

She pulled away. “This is my father’s house. How did you get here?”

“I…” The prince’s eyes glazed over. “I don’t know.”

“I found him,” said Denise.

“No, I found him,” Danielle clarified. “Out in the woods, lying on  the banks of the river, soaking wet and nearly dead.”

“We were together,” insisted her older sister, glaring, then  flittered her lashes at Endymion. “And you were severely injured, so  we carried you back here. It was very brave of us.”

Endymion was hardly listening. With fierce eyes, he grabbed Mina’s  wrist. “I remember—it was Seiya! I was coming back to Aysel—after  the fog came I knew something bad was happening—and I saw him in the  woods. When he saw me he became furious and drew his sword. He said  something about an ultimate plan, about me being a risk. Something  about how lucky he was to stumble upon me. And then he just attacked… ” Endymion’s brow was furrowed as he gently reached down and rubbed a  hand over his side, flinching as he felt the wound beneath the large  nightshirt that belonged to Mina’s father.

“I did my best to bandage you up,” said Denise. “You were bleeding  badly.”

“Who’s Seiya?” asked Danielle.

“You believe me, don’t you, Mina? I know I didn’t dream this up.”

“Of course I believe you. Besides, I heard the truth of it from the  man himself.”

“You’ve talked to him?”

She shook her head. “Endymion, you should sit. You’re hurt and… I  have horrible news.”

His expression darkening, Endymion widened his stance and crossed his  arms over his chest. “What happened?”

With a shaky breath, Mina sat down herself. “Queen Beryl has come to  the castle. She’s taken everyone prisoner—including Malachite—and  these awful thorns have grown up all around the castle, thicker than  walls. I only barely escaped and when I was hiding in the garden I saw  Seiya and Andrew. They said something about Seiya having gone out  looking for an old man and a mirror…”

“Grimm,” murmured the prince.

“And though Seiya could not find either of them, he said that he could  offer Beryl one thing—the fact that he killed you.”

Endymion snorted. “He honestly believes he has the skill to kill me!”

“It does seem as though he nearly succeeded.”

“He caught me off-guard. In a fair fight he wouldn’t stand a chance! ”

“Well they aren’t going to fight fair. Endymion, don’t you see? The  guardians are working for Queen Beryl, she’s in complete possession of  the castle, everyone’s in the dungeons, and— ”

“Is Serena all right?”

Mina paused. “Serena?”

“Is she all right? Did you see her?”

“I… I did see her.”

Endymion inhaled slowly, kneeling at the side of Mina’s chair. “Does  Beryl have her?”

Slowly, Mina shook her head. “No—not when I left, at least. I saw her  and there were guards after her but we hid from them. I tried to  convince her to take Cytherea out of the castle while I went back for  Malachite, but she wouldn’t. She told me to get out and she would go  back into the castle to find Lord Grimm. She’d seen him. She’d  thought she could find him again.”

Endymion groaned. “That stupid girl.”

“It was very brave of her.”

“I know,” he said, standing. “I hate it when she’s brave.” He  nodded curtly to Denise. “Where are my things?”

“Oh, uh—” Her eyes darted uncertainly around the room. “They’re  near the bed. But certainly you’re not leaving us so soon. You’re  hurt and need rest…” But Endymion had already disappeared into the  hallway. Exasperated, she turned to Mina, who couldn’t help but feel  her eyelids growing heavier. “Who is he?”

Mina smiled tiredly. “That’s Malachite’s youngest brother.”

“He’s a prince?” interjected Danielle, gently slapping Denise on the  arm. “I’ll have to fight you for him after all!”

“He’s engaged,” Mina said through a yawn.

“Of course he is. That Serena girl is so lucky. He’s gorgeous.”

Mina laughed again. “Oh, no, no. Serena’s just a guest in the castle —a sweet girl. But Endymion is engaged to Briar Rose from Obelia.  Though it is odd…” she mused, rocking herself into a lull.  “Yesterday was the princess’s sixteenth birthday, the final day of  her curse. But Endymion wasn’t there for her. And he didn’t even  think to ask after her just now.”

“Odd? It’s perfectly scandalous.”

Endymion barged back into the room, lacing up his arm braces.

“You’re really leaving us?” Denise whined, grabbing his arm. “Don’ t you realize how silly it is for you to go charging into the castle in  your condition? At least wait until morning!”

“I’ve had plenty of sleep, thank you.”

“Enydmion, Denise is right,” Mina said as she sat forward, forcing  herself to stay awake. “You’re in no match to take on the queen and  the guardians and the thorns and all of her guards. It’s ludicrous.”

“I can’t very well stand around doing nothing, can I?”

“But do you have a plan?”

“How far away are we from the castle?”
“About eight miles.”

“Then I will have a plan by the time I get there.”

“I’m going with you,” said Mina, pushing herself to uncertain feet.

“No, you’re not. You’ve been through too much already.”

“But Malachite—”

“Mina, he’s my brother! If he can be rescued, I will do it.”

The princess tilted her weary head to one side. “But he isn’t your  top concern, is he?”

Endymion’s bright blue eyes clashed with hers as he unconsciously  tightened his sword-laden belt. “Mina, you need to sleep. In the  morning, you can rally the farmers and the townspeople, but you’re  useless to me now.”

“You’re hurt,” she repeated.

“I’m still the best hunter in the land. I’ll be fine. Besides, I do  have one supreme advantage.”

“And what’s that?”

Endymion grinned his sarcastic, lop-sided grin. “They all think I’m  dead.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Even from a half mile away, Endymion could see the castle looming  before him, covered in the black shadow of thorns. Their tangled mess  nearly hid the structure completely, allowing only the occasional  pointed tower to show through. It made Endymion sick to think of his  home now posing as shelter to Queen Beryl, while his family, his  friends, his Serena, were imprisoned somewhere within.

Thinking of Serena being offered escape and deciding rather to turn  back and seek help from Lord Grimm filled the prince with both pride  and dread. He could only hope that she hadn’t yet been captured.

The wheat fields stretching to the horizon looked damp and miserable as  the prince made his way through them on the muddy road. He had seen no  one in his trek from the cottage and found no reason to hide himself.  Surely the briars that had overtaken the castle had been noticed by  all, and he was sure the news of Beryl’s coming had reached even the  most remote farms by now. It appeared that the terrified citizens of  Aysel were opting to stay in their falsely secure homes.

Even the town felt dank and deserted. Endymion wondered if the  townspeople had been taken prisoner along with the royal family, but  the muffled sounds of talking and living, and a few stray chimneys with  smoke swirling from them, confirmed that the people were just remaining  fearfully indoors. He tried to hush the sound of his boots thudding  against the cobblestone as he crept through alleyways.

Soon the stone walls bordering the castle and its ruined gardens  towered before him, draped with forlorn branches. He hung back,  watching the gate for movement, expecting it to be guarded by Beryl’s  henchmen, but he could spot no sign of life. His hair and cloak clung  to him, dampened from the fog, as he gazed up at the dreary castle. It  wasn’t long before the pain in his side caught up with him, reminding  him of the stab wound and filling his bones with a dull aching.  Gritting his teeth, he checked that his sword was loose in its  scabbard.

The gate had been left open. Peering past its iron bars, Endymion once  again paused to survey the thorn-choked gardens in search of an enemy,  but the grounds looked void of anything but the vines and branches. He  crept up the walkway as silently as he could. The briars had kindly  left the slimmest of openings leading to the castle’s wooden doors and  Endymion pushed his way forward, cringing each time a branch snapped  beneath his feet. But then his hand was on the door’s metal handle and  he was inside.

The castle’s interior looked no better. The walls and ceiling were  invisible behind the layer of thorns and the ground looked more like a  forest floor, all covered in branches and leaves. The hallway was  filled with silence and shadows as Endymion hovered just within the  doorway. Though he had walked the halls a thousand times, he now felt  lost in a place that was no longer home. He wondered if it would ever  return the place of warmth and love it used to be.

Though the prince had struggled to concoct a plan during his journey  from the farmlands, he now found himself torn. His heart wanted nothing  more than to search for Serena, but he knew that his top priority had  to be finding Beryl and doing what he could to stop her. He considered  heading toward the dungeons and trying to set free his brothers, who  would be invaluable at his side, but he predicted the dungeons would be  too heavily guarded for him to get through. Finally he decided that he  was doing no good by loitering at the castle entrance, so he wrapped  his fingers firmly around the hilt of his sword and trudged off toward  the throne room.

The briars made for slow going. Endymion wondered if Beryl had truly  meant to make the castle her home, for she had ruined it in mere hours.  Maybe she had a way of ridding the castle of the thistles once the  kingdom had submitted to her rule, but there would be no way of saving  all of the destroyed artwork, chandeliers, and carpets that littered  the rooms. The sight filled Endymion with disgust—how could anyone be  so willing to rid the world of such beauty, without remorse?

But it was a stupid question, he mused with a scowl. Queen Beryl cared  for only one kind of beauty. Her own.

Endymion had not even come close to the throne room when the sounds of  rakish laughter greeted him through an open doorway. Holding his  breath, Endymion judged the boisterous voices to belong to some of  Beryl’s guards. The smell of food and sounds of silverware crashing  against porcelain indicated that they were taking their meal break, and  having quite the time of it as they fought over choice pieces of meat  and joked about the quick submission of Aysel’s so-called royal  family. Endymion listened, trying to gather any piece of information  that could help him in his crusade, but none was forthcoming. Feeling  his face begin to heat with anger at their crudeness, Endymion finally  decided to back away and find a different route before his temper led  him to do something rash.

Just as he was beginning to back away, though, he felt a sharp jab  against his neck.

“I thought Seiya killed you.”

Endymion spun away and drew his sword in a fluid movement. Before him  stood Andrew, nearly two feet shorter than himself, yet looking overly  confident with a sword of his own.

They stood in stalemate for a moment, swords poised, before Andrew  bellowed for the guards.

The prince shifted so that his back was to a wall and he could  adequately face the elf on his right and the guards on the left. There  were three guards. He took a moment to assess their weapons and stance,  developing a plan of attack. But though they drew their weapons, no  attack came.

“Go alert Her Majesty that Prince Endymion has returned. Then hurry  back and escort him to the dungeon—I’m sure he’s eager to see his  brothers,” Andrew ordered.

Endymion kept his eyes trained on the guardian as the minions ran  without question in the opposite direction, toward the throne room.  Surely Andrew did not think he could defeat Endymion in a battle of  steel, which could only mean that he had another strategy. The prince  sank into his battle stance, prepared to lunge at the elf and drive his  sword into his heart, but Andrew looked unconcerned.

A moment later Endymion understood why.

“Where are they off to in such a hurry?” Hota asked, perched on Seiya ’s shoulder as they rounded a corner into the hallway. Seeing  Endymion, Seiya froze. Hota quirked an eyebrow.

With a smile, Andrew chirped, “I told you you should have cut off his  head.”

Chapter 28: Love’s First Kiss
He came to the tower and opened the door to the small
room in which Brier Rose was asleep. There she lay, and her
beauty was so marvelous that he could not take his eyes off her.
from Brier Rose

Seiya’s normally calm expression fell into a heated glare at the sight  of Endymion before him. Shaking with anger, he drew his sword.

Endymion backed away from Seiya, but with Andrew behind him, the  guardians had him surrounded. He turned his stance toward Seiya,  knowing that he could defeat him by sword, but uncertain what unknown  powers Hota and Andrew harbored.

“Why are you doing this?” Endymion growled.

“This is not the time to be asking stupid questions, Prince,” Seiya  snarled. He lunged at Endymion, who parried without hesitation. Seiya  spun to face him again and the sound of their swords clashing echoed  down the thorn-infested hallway.

“You blessed me at my birth ceremony!” Endymion said through gritted  teeth, sweating from exertion. The injury in his side began to sting, a  reminder that he was not at his strongest. “You blessed all my family! ”

Seiya ignored him, aiming a stab at the same wound he’d given Endymion  the day before, but Endymion pushed the sword away. Seiya’s face grew  red with fury.

“Why would you turn your back on us to go work for that witch?”

Seiya swung his sword at Endymion’s right arm. Endymion dodged— driving his side straight into Seiya’s oncoming fist. He screamed as  pain ripped through him, then crumpled to his knees. He looked up with  clenched jaw just as Seiya’s sword whipped toward his neck—

Until the blade wilted into a dead, thorny vine.

Endymion cried out, his body still expecting the sword, but the skin of  his neck was merely scratched by the dried-up thorns. He flinched away  from it.

“Hota!”

Struggling for breath, hardly believing that he was still alive,  Endymion scurried away from Seiya’s heavy boots and used a wall to  bring himself to his feet. One hand held his side; fresh blood was  seeping through the bandages. Raising his eyes, he saw Seiya shaking  the limp vine at the fairy, who now hovered effortlessly in the air  with her arms folded across her chest.

“Change it back!” Seiya bellowed. The anger was terrifying on the  face of a man who was normally so composed, but Hota appeared  undaunted.

“I think he deserves to know.”

“He deserves to die,” Seiya seethed.

“Just because wewant him to die doesn’t mean he deserves to die,”  Andrew pointed out. At Seiya’s glare, he stepped back and raised his  hands. “I’m not saying you shouldn’t kill him, it’s just a matter  of vocabulary.”

“Besides, Beryl may have a use for him. She hasn’t killed the rest of  the royal family yet. There must be a reason.”

Endymion felt a flicker of hope knowing that his family was alive.

“I told Beryl that he was dead, and I will make good on that word!”  barked Seiya. “Give me back my sword.”

Hota sighed as if she was losing her patience with a child. “He asked  us a question. I think he has the right to know why this is happening  before he dies—or is taken prisoner.”

Endymion pushed himself against the wall, forcing his legs to support  his weight. His trembling fingers tightened on the hilt of his sword.  He was grateful it had not been enchanted, but fearful that Hota could  do so in an instant. He knew that his sword would be little defense  against such sorcery.

“Fine, then explain it to him,” Seiya spat. “But make it quick. And  for Grimm’s sake, give me back my sword.”

Hota rolled her eyes, but with a flick of her wrist the vine stiffened  in Seiya’s hand and became his blade once more.

“You still use Grimm’s name as that of a deity,” Endymion murmured.

“It’s only a phrase,” countered Seiya.

“You’ve betrayed him as well, possibly worse than any of us,”  Endymion pointed out. “But why? I’ve heard tales that Lord Grimm  rescued you all, protected you, and appointed you the guardians. Why  would you betray him?”

Seiya snorted and Hota looked still more irritated, but Andrew  answered, “He did appoint us the guardians, to be sure, and bestowed  us with the powers required of those positions. But I can hardly say he  rescued or protected us.”

“And compared to what Beryl has promised us, Grimm gave us nothing,”  Hota added.

“What has Beryl promised you?”

“We are telling him too much,” Seiya muttered.

Ignoring the Guardian of Tragedy, Andrew answered, “The traditional  things that fairy-tale villains want, I suppose. Power. Riches.  Kingdoms.”

“Kingdoms?”

“She is to give each of us one of the three kingdoms. I hope to stay  in Aysel, myself, while Seiya will be supreme ruler of Cashlin, and  Hota will rule over Obelia.”

“What will Beryl rule over?”

“She is going to build a castle at the Crossroads and be Empress over  them all.

We are to answer to her in regards to ruling the lands, though really I  think she’ll be contented with the impressive title and leave us to  rule as we like.”

“Then it’s just greed? My family has been nothing but good to you for  generations, and you’re betraying us now because of greed?”

“It isn’t just greed, Master Endymion,” Andrew said with an  irritating smile. “It’s a little bit of revenge, too.”

“Revenge against who?”

“Lord Grimm.”

“And what has he ever done to you?”

Hota smirked and landed primly on Andrew’s shoulder, her wings  fluttering. “You know nothing of our history, Endymion. You and all  your loved ones just assume that we are here to serve you and your  stories, never once bothering to ask how we came to be what we are.”

Endymion gulped, feeling a bead of sweat snake down his brow as he  struggled to regain his strength. “All right, I’m asking now. What  happened to make you so bitter?”

“This is ridiculous,” Seiya hissed, setting the tip of his sword  amidst the vines on the floor and leaning against it. “He’s just  buying time.”

“So let him,” Andrew responded. “I have nothing better to be doing  right now—do you?”

Seiya glowered, but Hota glowered back at him. “Would you like to tell  the story?”

Seiya sheathed his sword and leaned against the wall with folded arms.

“You see, Endymion,” Hota started, “when the storytellers began to  pass away so many years ago, Lord Grimm and his brother realized that  they required assistance in keeping this world as fantastic as they’d  created it. They were worried that their powers would not be able to  compose the stories as they were meant to be composed, with all  elements thereof. And so they searched the land for three assistants— and found us.”

“Why did they choose you?”

“Because we had no stories of our own,” she said with a mild shrug.  “They of course couldn’t choose a prince or a witch or even a fool— for they all had their own stories to be a part of. But the three of us  had nothing. We were born into normal families in normal homes. One  human, one elf, and one fairy, all with one thing in common—we were  the dullest characters in all the land.” Hota laughed bitterly. “And  so they took us from our normal homes and normal families and made us  into something very abnormal: the Three Guardians. They bestowed us  with our powers and our gifts for both finding and creating tragedy,  romance, and drama. And they likewise bestowed us with a curse. No  matter how many stories we helped to save or protect or compose to the  storytellers’ wishes, we would never have stories of our own. No  tragedy. No romance. No drama.”

“No happy endings,” added Andrew.

“Have you told Lord Grimm about this? Does he even know you want to be  something else?”

“I imagine not. Lord Grimm, just like you and your family and everyone  else in Aysel, never bothered to question what we might want. We are  only the guardians, created to be slaves to all of your kind, to make  yourdreams come true.”

“And so when Beryl approached us with her proposition, right after  Briar Rose’s blessing ceremony, we did not hesitate to accept,”  Andrew finished, cutting Hota off before she could fall into a tirade.  “We no longer require Grimm for our gifts or our powers. Soon we will  be the new rulers of all the lands, and we will never be pawns to Lord  Grimm, or anyone else, again.”

“Have you not just become Beryl’s pawns instead?”

Andrew snorted. “Beryl has only a silly mirror to give her power. We  have complete control over everything dramatic, tragic, and even  romantic. We have let her believe she will become Empress for this  long, and who knows? Perhaps we’ll let her keep the title after all.  But she has no dominion over us. If anything, she has become the pawn. ”

The sound of footsteps reached them from down the hall. Seiya pushed  himself away from the vines and drew his sword. “The guards are  returning. We’re not going to let him be taken prisoner by Beryl after  telling him all that are we?”

“Goodness, no,” Andrew said, waving his hand airily without a hint of  concern. “Go ahead and kill him.”

Hota gave her nod of approval and Seiya gripped the hilt of his sword  with an expression that bordered on a grin.

Gritting his teeth against the pain that shot through his side,  Endymion pushed himself away from the wall and sunk into a battle  stance. He barely had time to examine the situation before Seiya  lunged. He turned Seiya’s sword away and aimed a strike for the  guardian’s shoulder, but his sword met Seiya’s blade.

With a grunt, Seiya forced Endymion’s sword to the side and stepped  back. He was panting, though it seemed more from anger than exertion.  “Why don’t you turn his sword into a stick?” he growled.

“Drama,” Hota answered.

Endymion drove forward but was met again with Seiya’s blade. Though he  knew that his skill far surpassed Seiya’s, he was beginning to realize  that Seiya could defeat him on strength alone. His whole left side felt  weak and he could feel blood dripping down his leg. Seiya came at him  again and he was able to turn him away, barely, and the guardian did  not hesitate to attack, again and again. Each of Endymion’s counters  seemed to make Seiya stronger, faster, while Endymion only became  weaker.

He spun away from another of Seiya’s blows and lashed out with his  blade. In his mind he knew that it was a careless move, but a moment  later there was a gash over the black tear tattoo and blood on Seiya’s  cheek. Endymion surged with pride.

But it was short-lived as Seiya threw himself forward with all his  weight—the point of his sword aimed at Endymion’s heart.

The prince moved to shield the attack with his sword and only barely  deflected it. The sword pierced his right side—a mirror to the wound  on his left. Crying out, he fell forward. His sword dropped from his  hand.

A panicked yell echoed down the hallway.

Endymion caught himself unsteadily on a thorny branch, barely able to  keep himself from hitting the ground. Another blow did not immediately  follow to finish him off and he forced himself to breathe, to stand, to  look up at the source of the scream. Blinking sweat from his eyes,  clutching his free hand to the gushing wound, he saw Lord Grimm at the  other end of the hallway.

It was not the guards’ footsteps they had heard.

“Endymion, run!” he ordered. His eyes blazed in fear and power as he  raised both hands toward the stunned guardians.

The prince was forgotten with this new, more threatening and more  prized enemy lurking in their midst. “Well, isn’t this a pleasant  surprise,” Andrew muttered beneath his breath as Seiya wiped his  bloody sword on his tunic.

Seiya advanced, Andrew drew his own sword, and Hota was already drawing  archaic glyphs in the air. Grimm bellowed, “Run, you fool! Get out of  here! You must save Briar Rose!”

Endymion stumbled backward, pain shooting through his spine. The name  of his forgotten fiancé seemed anything but appropriate in that moment.

“Run!” Grimm screamed again, and smoke gathered around his hands. To  match it, tiny sparks were flicking at Hota’s fingertips.

Flustered, Endymion lurched backward, gripping for any vine within  reach and ignorant to the gashes the thorns left on his palms. The  rumbling of thunder in the hallway stopped his heart as Hota let forth  a blast of magic that he could not see—only hear, and then feel. The  shaking of the ground would have knocked him to his feet had he not  been gripping the briars so tightly. His eyes glued to the battle,  Endymion watched as Grimm raised one hand to block whatever onslaught  of power Hota had cast at him. He could tell that the defense was not  effortless and Grimm tottered on his feet. With regained balanced, the  storyteller thrust forward with one hand and sent a cluster of thorny  branches dislodging from the ceiling above and come crashing down on  the elf and fairy—but Andrew was able to hold them off and suffer only  a few minor scratches as Hota flew out from beneath them.

“Run!”

It took Endymion a confused moment to realize the command was meant for  him. As another of the thunder-like claps vibrated down the hallway, he  turned on his heels and lunged for the nearest corridor, using his arms  to pull himself along the vine-encrusted walls while trying to keep  pressure on his gushing wound. The battle raged on behind him. It was  adrenaline and fear, not strength, that propelled him onward.

Just before he escaped into the hallway, he hesitated and turned back.

Grimm fell to his knees with a cry of pain. Seiya towered over him with  the only smile Endymion could remember seeing on his face.

Grimm’s gray eyes met Endymion’s. “Briar Rose,” he mouthed.

Then Seiya plunged his sword into the old man’s heart.

Pushing himself away from the wall, Endymion ran.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The stabbing pain in his side made Endymion feel as though he’d been  running for hours, though he knew he hadn’t gotten far at all. He  sprinted through the corridors, pausing only to analyze the soiled  paintings or broken doors behind the vines to determine where he was.  The only sounds were his labored breathing and the branches crunching  beneath his boots. He saw no guards, no living creatures, just the  endless creepers reaching for him—sometimes blocking his path,  sometimes slithering fearfully out of his way.

Then the adrenaline-induced strength left him, all at once, and with a  cry he collapsed to his hands and knees in the middle of a hallway that  could have been any hallway in the palace. Endymion retched, but his  stomach was empty. His head swam. Never had he pushed himself so hard.  Never had he felt weaker. Gasping for breath, he wiped his mouth clean  and swiped the sweat from his forehead with his sleeve.

With a curse, he pushed himself back and sprawled out against a clump  of vines. Some thorns hooked onto his already tattered clothing, but  otherwise the briars were harmless beneath him. He was dizzy with  exhaustion, his entire body ached, and when his palm pressed against  his side, it came away sticky with blood.

But his thoughts were not on his situation or weakness or injury, but  rather on Lord Grimm’s last moments. You must save Briar Rose. Briar  Rose. During all of this, Endymion hadn’t once thought of his fiancé,  and he couldn’t begin to comprehend why Grimm had used his last breath  on her. What could the princess do against the horrors of Queen Beryl,  the guardians, the castle of thorns?

What could Endymion do?

He groaned with the realization that everyone had thought Lord Grimm  was their best hope for salvation. And now he was dead.

The last storyteller was dead.

Endymion’s eyes closed and he lacked the strength or will to open them  again. His imagination replayed the death of the old man again and  again, the words, Briar Rose, Briar Rose, Briar Rose…

With a jolt, his eyes snapped open. Serena.

She had gone back into the castle to find Grimm, but she had not been  with him. So where was she? Had she been discovered and taken prisoner,  or was she…?

Endymion reached for some vines and used his last bits of strength to  pull himself upward. It was an agonizingly slow ascent to standing and  once there, he clung to the vines and struggled to find balance and  breath. If there was the slightest chance that he could still save the  kingdom, his family, Serena, then he had to try.

He took a moment to look around and realize that he was near the  northwest corner of the castle, before easing his way down the  corridor. Unable to think of any other option, he started moving in the  direction of the throne room.

Endymion had not gone twenty yards when the silence was broken. At  first he thought it was madness overtaking his mind, but he could not  shake the sound away, nor ignore it. It sounded like crying. Not sobs  or wailing, but the quiet echoes of sniffling and the continuous  struggle for breath. He ambled toward it, cringing with every step,  until an open doorway revealed to him a girl in a full white dress. She  was huddled in the corner of a music room, crying into her knees. The  gown that had once been unspeakably beautiful was now tattered and  filthy.

“Briar Rose?” Endymion murmured, leaning against the doorframe.

She looked up at him, nose dripping and cheeks flushed, and sobbed.  Despite knowing that he must look horrific, Endymion could see nothing  but gratefulness in her eyes as she looked at him. Wetting his lips, he  started toward her, but his body only let him take a step before the  jolt from his wound made him think he should not waste the energy.

“You’re alive,” he said stupidly.

She sobbed again and brushed her tears away with the tips of fingers.  “So are you,” she accused through trembling lips.

“Come on, stand up. You can’t stay here.”

“Why not?”

Endymion scanned the room—violins and lutes and clarinets were  scattered haphazardly across the floor, ravaged by the creepers. “You ’ll be caught and killed.”

“Beryl has wanted me dead since the day I was born. I think I stand  little chance of escaping her, so let her come.”

Frowning, Endymion turned and glanced out the hallway, ever fearful of  being discovered by Beryl’s minions. When he glanced back at the  princess, she was watching him with wide, saddened eyes.

“Why aren’t you asleep?” he asked. “Your curse…”

Briar Rose lowered her gaze and set to pulling thorns out of her skirt.  “The curse did not want me.”

“What does that mean?”

She hesitated for so long that Endymion began to think her sanity was  lost, and wondered if she was worth rescuing at all in this state. He  shook his head at the guilty thought and inched toward her with an  outstretched hand. “Take my hand, Briar Rose. We’ll try to find a way  out of the castle.”

With a whimsical smile, she looked up at him again. “I do not think we  should be betrothed anymore, Prince Endymion.”

More certain now that her mind wasn’t sound, Endymion paused and  watched her sympathetically. “All right.”

With a curt nod at their agreement, she continued, “The curse has  chosen Lady Serena instead.”

Endymion found himself choking in surprise and the metallic taste of  blood was suddenly on his tongue. “Serena?”

“She was trying to rescue me. I began to fall toward the spinning  wheel and Serena pushed it away, pricking her finger as she did. And  then she was asleep.” Briar Rose sighed, part reminiscent, part  bitter. “I stayed with her awhile but could think of nothing to help  her, and so I came down here. But this castle is unfamiliar to me and I  could think of nowhere—”

“Take me,” Endymion interrupted. “Take me to her.”

Mouth agape, Briar Rose stared at him with an air of offense, before  slowly gathering her composure. “I thought you were going to help me  escape.”

Irritation and guilt swept through Endymion, but Briar Rose ignored his  hurt look and pulled herself to her feet. “I’m teasing you,” she  said without a hint of humor. “I’ll take you to her, if I can find  the way.”

She led him out of the music room without bothering to check for signs  of the enemy—luckily, the hallway was deserted. Endymion followed her,  watching how she hardly seemed to notice the vines dangling from the  ceiling and curling up around her ankles, only swatting them away when  they impeded her. Even now she carried herself with the same  superiority she always had, the same air befitting a princess.

By the time they reached the end of the hallway, Endymion knew where  they were going and it was only the throbbing in his side that kept him  from running. The door to the weapons room stood open; slashed and  broken plant limbs littered the floor beneath it. Briar Rose went into  the room and gestured at the revealed staircase. Endymion hardly saw  all of the forsaken armor and weaponry in the room, thinking only of  the spindle and Serena in the tower.

“Stay here,” he commanded, though Briar Rose had already slumped  wistfully against a wall.

Each step of the winding staircase was a struggle. Endymion gripped the  rail and moved as swiftly at his weary limbs would allow. Finally the  wooden door loomed before him. The vines had entangled it and pulled it  away from the wall until it dangled from one hinge—held in balance by  the restraining thorns. Endymion wasted no time in pushing it open and  stumbling into the chamber.

She was lying in the center of the room, beside the spindle. The briars  surrounded her, looking soft and protective despite their thorns. Some  tendrils had curled up around her fingers and ankles, but they appeared  more like extensions of her body than chains binding her. Her long,  golden hair was draped over the branches and they entwined together  like lovers.

The black dress she wore made her skin look pale and luminescent, with  hints of rose on her cheeks and gently curving lips. Her lashes seemed  longer than he’d ever noticed them, and did not flutter as he  approached through the creepers. Her chest rose and fell with each  steady, peaceful breath.

Endymion’s pain was forgotten as he looked upon her, seeing the  embodiment of serenity that he could not have imagined before that  moment. The horror of the last day fell away from him as he lowered  himself to his knees. She made no movement to acknowledge his presence,  even as he reached up and traced a tender finger along her jaw. It  almost felt tragic to have to awaken her from this peace that would  otherwise be eternal. He hoped that she would not be bitter for being  forced to return to his side.

He slid his hand beneath her neck, cradling her head and feeling the  soft curls of hair winding around his fingers. His other arm reached  around to her side and slid beneath her back, gently lifting her body  toward him as he lowered his lips to hers.

And though it was the most natural and heavenly kiss Endymion could  have imagined, it nearly broke his heart to know he’d had to steal it  from her while she slept.

Pulling away, he opened his eyes and looked down on her—the slightly  parted, slightly smiling lips, the flushed cheeks, the golden curls  that framed her heart-shaped face, and the long, thick eyelashes that  slowly fluttered open.

Serena blinked and inhaled a long breath, before letting it go in a  contented sigh. Knowing that she was only partly pulled from the world  of dreams, Endymion smiled down on her and kissed her again, and it was  this that forced her to awaken to the reality they were in.

She gasped, and her whimsical smile was replaced with curiosity and  concern.

“Endymion?”

“You were asleep.”

Serena hesitated. Her eyes flickered to the spindle. Endymion could not  tear his gaze from her. “I remember—Briar Rose was…” She began to  shake and she lifted her hand up. The thorns released her without  complaint. She analyzed her finger with wide eyes, taking in the smear  of dried blood on the tip. “How?”

He could not answer her. All in a wave, the pain came back to him and  he remembered that he had been stabbed and was losing blood and he had  forgotten to try and stop it since Briar Rose had told him of Serena’s  sleep. He clenched his jaw and squeezed his eyes against the throbbing  in his side and the sudden faintness in his head.

“Endymion?” Her voice came to him muffled. There was the faraway  sensation of her hands on his face—feeling first his cheeks and then  his forehead. He tried to open his eyes to see her, but the world  blurred into white and black and he flinched and shut them again. She  repeated his name, her voice full of panic, and Endymion knew that he  was no longer supporting her, but she had wrapped her arms around him  to keep him from collapsing.

She gasped. She’d found the blood.

It happened quickly, though in Serena’s thoughts the moment was slowed  down to agonizing speeds. It stretched out by each breath, each  heartbeat.

She shrieked and called his name and begged him to open his eyes,  begged him to look at her. Lying him down against the thorns she ripped  a shred from the hem of her skirt and desperately pressed it against  his side. She cried but could not feel the tears. She hovered over him  and pulled her hands through his hair and cupped his face and covered  him in frantic kisses.

He did not open his eyes again.

Soon, all that was left for her to do was curl up against him and cry.

And there Serena would have remained beside Endymion’s body until  death found her. Alone in his arms that grew slowly colder, she wept  and dreamed about every moment they had shared—every argument and  every flirtation and all of the chances she’d had to kiss him. All the  chances she’d wasted. Serena felt that her life had started with that  waking kiss, and now that blessed life had ended.

Endymion was dead.

If only he had let her sleep. If only he had not returned to the  castle. If only he had loved Briar Rose or Serena had figured out the  guardians’ plan long ago or she had never been brought into this  horrible world of magic and misery to begin with.

These thoughts consumed her and she let them, wanting to never again  think of anything but her own tragedy.

Until a scream shattered her peace and stole her cruelly back.

Serena jerked up. Her heart pounded in her chest and she wondered if  she had fallen asleep and dreamt such horrible things. Her hands ached  from clutching Endymion’s cloak and her right arm tingled with pins  and needles. The rebellion of her nerves made that moment seem real and  all the other moments feel fake, as if Endymion’s death had not really  happened—because who could take note of something so trivial as  sleeping nerves when their true love had just died in their arms?

The scream came again, short and breathless. Serena found that she  could not look down at Endymion and so she looked around at the thorns  and the spindle and wondered if she ignored the screaming long enough  it would leave her alone. She closed her eyes to listen, and to keep  herself from looking down on Endymion’s lifeless face. The scream did  not come again but the sound of it continued to echo in Serena’s ears  and she began to think that it was both familiar and near. And when she  thought again of lying down and sleeping beside Endymion until sleep or  death or both claimed her, she felt sick to her stomach.

Opening her eyes, she forced herself to acknowledge him. She found that  she loved him still, even in death. He had not changed, which made her  think she hadn’t been lying there as long as she thought she had. A  pool of blood had flooded the stone floor. Sobbing against her will,  she reached up her hand and clapped it over her mouth. Fresh tears  started down her cheeks. It took her a moment to catch her breath, to  force the crying to stop—as much as possible. And then she could bend  down and kiss him one last time.

“I love you,” she whispered. Her voice broke, but she knew he’d  understood.

There was nothing left to do but stand on her unsteady legs and make  her way down the treacherous stairs. It felt like walking away from the  sunset and into a long, long night.

Chapter 29: The Realm of the Mirrors
“Mirror, mirror, on the wall,
Who is fairest of them all?”
from Snow White

It was Briar Rose who had screamed. Serena found her plastered against  the wall inside the stairwell. She was clutching the collar of her  white wedding dress and gaping out into the weapons room.

Serena paused and looked at the princess, with her porcelain skin and  terror-filled eyes. She had a sense of pity and wondered that if Briar  Rose had fallen prey to the curse and been awoken only to find her true  love dying, would she had left the room to seek out the source of a  curious scream? Would she have better understood her role as fairy-tale  heroine, tragic or otherwise?

Briar Rose caught sight of Serena from the corner of her eye and  yelped, jumping away. But recognition quickly overcame the fright and  she just as quickly lunged forward, taking Serena by the wrist.

“There’s something out there,” she whispered.

The comment seemed unimportant in Serena’s head and took a long time  to register. She pursed her lips and allowed Briar Rose to push her  toward the open doorway. She thought of that morning—or what she  thought was still that morning—when she had seen Briar Rose wandering  the hallways in search of death. How much had changed since then, and  yet Serena once again had to be brave, had to fix things for the  better. It was almost too ironic to bear.

But she didn’t think she had any other choice, and so she followed the  princess’s lead and poked her head into the weapons room.

It seemed empty, excepting, of course, the scattered armor, the beaten  weapons, the broken vines. She shook her head, but then paused,  thinking there had been a movement. She watched and listened until she  was sure there was indeed a shuffling beneath a shield that had fallen  against a wall. Serena held up her hand so that Briar Rose would stay  behind her. Stooping, she freed an axe from the vines and held it over  her shoulder. Slowly—as silently as she could—she inched toward the  shield, finding it easy to be brave. Courage is always easiest with  nothing left to lose.

The vines beneath the shield were still. There was no sound other than  Serena’s pounding heart and she knew that Briar Rose had not followed  behind her. Serena lowered the axe and leveled its head toward the  shield, before jerking it upward and shoving the shield away.

Her breath snagged as she stared at two calm red eyes in a small furry  face staring back at her. In the distance, she heard the shield roll a  ways and clatter to the ground.

Briar Rose approached from behind and murmured, “A cat?”

Serena dropped the axe. “Puss in Boots.”

Puss in Boots stretched his two white paws out in front him and curled  his back upward to the ceiling. With a yawn, the cat was satisfied, and  languidly retracted his paws. His red eyes returned to Serena, followed  by a bored blink and a twitch of the tail.

“Where did he come from?”

Serena absently looked around the room, wondering the same thing  herself. “He belongs to Lord Grimm.”

Briar Rose crouched down. “I didn’t know that Lord Grimm had a cat,”  she said, holding her fingers out beckoningly. Puss looked away.

Looking down at the princess, Serena knew that Briar Rose did not  understand. No one knew that Jacob Grimm was still alive. They all  thought he’d been taken by the same fever that had killed the other  storytellers. She did not want to take the time to explain it to the  princess, so instead she turned to the cat, who was now licking one paw  and running it behind his ear to clean the hard-to-reach spot on top of  his head.

“How did you get here?”

Puss paused and blinked up at her before returning to his bath.

Hardly in the mood to be ignored by a cat, Serena stooped down and  lifted Puss off the ground, settling him into the crook of her arm. The  bell on his neck tinkled. Instead of being surprised and agitated like  she’d expect him to be, Puss snuggled against her chest and started  purring.

“He’s adorable,” Briar Rose swooned, and Serena found herself  irritated with the princess too.

Serena reached for the collar and lifted the charm. The cat’s name  engraved on one side and the Thornrose Lane address on the other was  peculiarly disappointing to Serena—she’d been hoping for some magical  clue to guide her to Grimm, as it had before.

“Big help you are,” she muttered, releasing the charm and scratching  Puss on the neck. “You know, in the fairy tale you could talk. You did  many great things. You even defeated an ogre. But what good are you to  me like this?”

Puss in Boots stopped purring and looked up at her.

“What are you talking about?” Briar Rose asked. “He’s just a cat.”

Frowning, Serena handed Puss to the princess. “I guess you’re right.  Besides, nothing in this world is how it’s supposed to be.”

“We need to get out of here,” said Briar Rose, suddenly recalling the  danger they were in as she cradled Puss. She had felt indifferent to it  before the cat had shown up—now she felt that she wanted to be far  away from the castle, and safe. Hours ago she wanted to prick her  finger and sleep forever. Now she wanted to go home—she wondered if  her father, the King of Obelia, had heard of Beryl’s intrusion. He  must be worried about her.

“And go where?”

“We need to get out of the castle. If we stay here, we’ll die.  Besides, we’re not doing anyone any good by staying locked up in this  tower. Soldiers are bound to find us sooner or later and take us to  Beryl—lock us up in the dungeon.” She reconsidered, her eyes shifting  away from Serena in a daze. With an ironic smile, she shook her head.  “No, they would likely lock you up in the dungeon. Beryl wants me  dead. I doubt she would hesitate.”

“She must think you’re asleep by now.”

“Her mirror will let her know of the truth soon enough. Serena, why do  you suppose the curse…?”

“I don’t know,” Serena answered curtly. “I only know that nothing  in this world is how it’s supposed to be.”

Puss meowed and tried to stand up in Briar Rose’s arms. His red eyes  were fixed on the door leading out into the castle.

Lowering her voice, the princess asked, “Do you think he hears  something? A guard?”

Before Serena could respond, Puss had clambered his way out of Briar  Rose’s hold and bounded to the floor. He meowed again, louder, and  Serena sucked in a frightened breath. “Puss, hush,” she ordered,  reaching for the cat, but he dodged away and headed toward the door,  meowing more urgently. “Puss in Boots, stop that!”

Panicking, Serena lunged toward the door and grabbed the cat,  desperately trying to shush him. But the harder she tried to subdue  him, the louder he cried, until the room was filled with his shrill  meows.

And then the door began to open.

The two girls stepped away and Puss fell quiet.

Dropping the cat, Serena retrieved the axe she had chosen before. Briar  Rose plastered herself against the wall beside the blue curtain, ready  to disappear up the stairs in a moment’s notice.

“Puss, are you in here?”

Serena gawked at the small old man who peeked his head into the weapons  room. Their eyes met and he gasped, jolting his crooked back upward to  an almost upright position. Puss strolled toward the man and rubbed  against his leg.

“Well, I’ll be,” Jacob Grimm murmured, pushing aside a cluster of  vines with a walking cane and stepping inside the room, shutting the  door behind him. He looked just as Serena remembered—the brown  trousers and white shirt and suspenders, the monocle dangling from a  chain around his neck, the way he carried himself slumped over and sad.  Now he held a cane that helped to propel him a bit faster and a brown  sack slung over one shoulder that looked heavy and forced him to lean  to that side. He removed it from his shoulder and set it among the  vines.

Serena could not stop staring. Seeing Jacob Grimm reminded her of the  day she’d first come here—she and Melvin had walked home from school,  she hadn’t gotten to say goodbye to her mother before departing for  Thornrose Lane, and there had been some forgotten gossip about Darien  Shields . . . how different everything had become.

“You’re in a right bit of trouble, now aren’t you, child?” Jacob  asked, glancing at a terrified Briar Rose hovering in the stairwell. He  politely inclined his head toward her before looking at Serena again.  Noticing the glossiness of her eyes, he softened his gaze. “I hope you  aren’t upset with me. I didn’t mean for it all to end up so badly…  to put you in so much danger. But I thought it was the only way… and  given who you are, I thought you were our last chance…”

“What do you mean?” Serena whispered. “Who am I?”

He blinked at her, uncertain. “Hasn’t the curse come yet?”

Serena gaped. “You knew that the curse…”

Briar Rose was right behind her, sweeping out into the room with wild  eyes. “Who are you and what do you know about my curse?”

“Stop it,” Serena hissed, grabbing the princess’s arm. “This is  Jacob Grimm—Lord Grimm’s brother. He is one of the storytellers.”

The princess reeled back, and turned to the old man in disbelief. He  smiled wanly. “You must be the princess of Obelia. You won’t remember  me—I left not long before you were born.” He paused. “The king would  remember me.”

“You’re dead.” Her words rang with certainty. “Lord Grimm told us  all that you died of the same fever that killed the other storytellers.  He would not lie to us. The fog even came, so it must be true. You’re  an imposter.” Her voice wavered slightly but she looked regal and  composed. Jacob only looked at her with sadness in his dark eyes.

“I’m dreadfully sorry that I do not have the time to explain all of  these matters to you—to both of you. Simply put, I had to leave this  kingdom in order to protect some things that were very dear. It was  inherently important that no one know, else evildoers find out. Only my  brother knew, of course, and… also the king of Obelia.”

Briar Rose’s expression darkened. “My father would have told me.”

“No. No, child, I’m afraid he wouldn’t have. It would only have  endangered you and all of his subjects.”

“He’s telling the truth,” said Serena. “Lord Grimm told me all this  himself. Jacob was sent to my world, in order to protect…” She  hesitated. Could the princess know?

But Jacob solemnly nodded and finished for her, “To protect the fifth  magic mirror. We did not want to destroy it—having already destroyed  two others, we thought it might be helpful to have it in the fight  against Beryl. But we also did not want to risk it falling into her  hands, or any evil hands.”

“So why did you come back?” Serena asked. “When we met, you told me  that you couldn’t come back here, because it would put everyone in  danger.”

“And so it has—but it could not be avoided.” His voice caught. “You  see, they’ve killed my brother.”

“Lord Grimm?”

“It isn’t possible!” Briar Rose cried. “Now I know you are a liar. ”

“It was the guardians that did it,” he continued brokenly. “Our very  own guardians.”

“Then you know that they’re working for Beryl.”

“Well… yes. Though I suspect they have much larger ambitions of their  own.” He sighed, adding, “It has become such a sad story, hasn’t it? ”

“What do we do now?”

“I’m not sure, child. This never should have gotten so bad. Queen  Beryl has become too powerful, and the guardians too greedy. And all of  my fellow storytellers dead, and me so old.”

“But you’re still a storyteller! There must be something you can do.  We just need a plan…. Maybe if we could release the prisoners… or  gather the townspeople…”

Jacob smiled whimsically at Serena, as if looking at a silly girl  telling stories. “They killed my brother, who was always so much  stronger than me. What can we do against them?”

Suddenly furious, Serena gathered her black dress into her fists.  “Well we have to do something! We have to try! We can’t just let them  win!”

“Keep your voice down,” Briar Rose hissed.

Ignoring her, Serena stomped toward the old man. “Fine. Then send me  home if you don’t plan on doing something. I’m through with all of  this.”

“I’m afraid I can’t, Serena. We would need to go back to the bridge,  and I see no way of getting there now.”

“What bridge?”

“The bridge between the worlds, that you first came through.”

Serena shook her head. “There wasn’t a bridge! There was Thornrose  Lane and then there was here.”

“Yes—that was the bridge.”

Serena’s heart sank. “You mean that little shack of his, out in the  fields? I have to get all the way back there to get home?”

“I’m afraid so. And I do not think it will be easy to escape from the  castle unnoticed.”

“That may not be true,” suggested Briar Rose. “I was wandering the  halls earlier, before Endymion showed up, and didn’t see a soul. No  servants or guards or anybody. It seemed positively deserted.”

“Endymion you say? Where is the prince? If he hasn’t been taken  prisoner, perhaps he can help…”

Serena’s chest tightened and she had to look away.

“He’s dead,” said Briar Rose—her voice as cold as the words, too  truthful. Serena gaped at her, heated anger suddenly rushing through  her veins, but Briar Rose met her gaze calmly. “I saw how he was  bleeding. And when he did not return with you…” Trailing off, she  turned back to Jacob. “He had been stabbed when I found him and  bleeding very badly. But I told him of Serena meeting the curse instead  of me, and he wanted to see her. The spinning wheel is beyond those  stairs.” She gestured, and Serena realized that it was a kindness of  her to explain what she could not, though it did not make the words  easier to stomach.

Slowly, she was able to breathe again. She could not help feeling a  little saddened that the secret she had harbored of Endymion’s death  had been no secret at all.

Jacob was looking at her—pitiful and devastated. She held his gaze,  thinking that they should all know she was in pain. Her heart was  broken. She was far weaker than either of them at that moment, but  still willing to be brave.

“I see,” Jacob finally murmured, turning away. She did not think he  really saw. “Well then…. I am so sorry. He was a fine prince.”

“Did you even know him?” she spat, more harshly than she’d intended.

Choosing his words carefully, Jacob said, “Child, we have both lost  someone very dear to us today.”

She took a deep breath, trying to calm herself. “So I think we should  not let their deaths go to waste. They both died protecting this  kingdom, and protecting us. Don’t you think we owe it to them to try  and set things right?”

“I’ve lost someone too,” Briar Rose whispered, stepping forward as  if she were hoping to be admitted to a selective club. “Not to death,  but I don’t doubt that Alex is being tortured, and will die soon.”  Her voice broke—she’d been trying hard not to think of him.

Jacob looked like he would have collapsed of exhaustion had it not been  for the cane in his grip. “There is one possibility… one advantage we  have. But it may be dangerous.”

“Anything we do will be dangerous.”

Taking a long breath, Grimm shifted on his heels and tapped the brown  sack he had carried inside with his cane. “There are three remaining  magic mirrors. Beryl is never seen without hers nearby. My brother hid  his where it would be safe, for a time. And then there is mine.”

Serena looked down at the bag. Having followed the tip of Jacob’s cane  like a toy, Puss in Boots had crawled up onto the bag and curled up  there, grateful to find a soft place out of the thorns.

“You brought the magic mirror into Beryl’s castle? What if she finds  it?”

“It is a chance I had to take. I fear it may be the last option we  have.”

“And what can we do with it? I thought it was just for spying on  people. Are we going towatch her to death?”

Jacob scowled. “If that was all there was to it, why would we have  been so intent on keeping them out of villainous hands? Obviously Beryl  nearly killed you that night in the well with the poisoned comb—and  she nearly killed Snow White in her room, using a corset.”

Obviously. Serena felt ignorant again. “We can do those things too?  Attack people through the mirror?”

Jacob looked uncomfortable, but nodded. “Beryl has had much more  practice entering the realm of the mirrors, of course, but it is a  possibility.”

“How does it work?”

Stooping down, Jacob pushed Puss off the bag and opened it with the  utmost care. Then he reached inside and lifted the mirror from its  confines. Briar Rose hid her face behind her hands, peeking out between  her fingers as if the mirror was a living beast.

But it was not a frightening thing at all. Just a mirror with a  weathered wood frame and warped, dingy glass. But Serena was not  fooled. She had seen an identical mirror in Grimm’s hovel, revealing  the angry red eyes of Queen Beryl as she desperately searched for Snow  White. And she had seen a third mirror of the same likeness in the  throne room, when Beryl had asked who would be fairest and the mirror  had revealed Serena in her hiding place. The beat-up, decaying look of  the mirrors was surely a façade to keep ignorant thieves away.

Jacob was holding it as if it was an old friend, cradling it against  his chest. “It is difficult to explain how the mirrors work. They are  all linked together—like five tunnels that meet in one center, a  crossroads. We call it the realm of the mirrors. When you use them to  peer through the other magic mirrors, you remain where you are  physically and can only look, like looking through a window. And you  can look through all other mirrors in the land, but it is more  difficult, like looking through a very dirty window. But then, if the  mirror allows it, you may enter the realm of the mirrors and… travel,  in a sense, to the other mirrors. But it is very difficult. I must  confess, I was not aware that one could travel through a magic mirror  into a non-magic mirror, such as the reflective surface of water, or a  simple vanity. Beryl has proven that it can be done.”

“But you can’t get into this realm through a normal mirror, can you? ”

“No… no, it must be one of the five magic mirrors. Or, anymore, one  of the three.”

Serena looked into the mirror’s dingy surface and saw her reflection  looking back. “So that’s how we can get to Beryl, and she wouldn’t  expect it.”

“It is not a simple thing, Serena. If it were easy to travel through  the mirrors, Beryl would have killed Snow White and Briar Rose long  ago. But it has taken her many years to have such control over her  mirror.”

“But you helped make the magic mirrors. You’ve been in possession of  this one for… decades. Centuries, even! You must be able to do  anything you want with it now.”

Jacob lowered his eyes. “That is not so. I never enjoyed going into  the realm and have avoided it. I have only used the mirror for watching  these many long years, and I am not terribly familiar with it, nor it  with me. Besides…” He paused, looking back at Serena pleadingly. “I  will not be the one going into the realm.”

“You mean I have to go alone?” She turned to Briar Rose, who had  removed her hands from her face but was still staring at the mirror  with a stricken expression, her face almost as white as the dress she  wore. Without asking, Serena knew that Briar Rose would not dare go  with her. She turned back to the mirror, glaring, and muttered beneath  her breath, “You’re both cowards.”

“I am old and weak…” Jacob began, but Serena held up her hand to  silence him.

“It doesn’t matter. I’ll do it. I will put an end to Beryl’s reign —for Endymion if for no one else.”

“Of course, Beryl is only a small portion of our worries...”

“One enemy at a time,” Serena seethed. She would deal with the  guardians next.

And then she would bury Endymion and go home and cry for a long, long  time.

“What do I do?”

Jacob held the mirror so that Serena was face to face with herself. She  was pale and her eyes were rimmed with red, but she was strangely  beautiful in that moment. Her face was filled with the loveliness of a  girl who has recently discovered what true love meant.

“You must tell the mirror what you want to see, or where you wish to  go. It is often easier to go into the realm first and then decide from  there what other mirror you wish to go through. Try to be as clear as  possible, for the mirror can mistranslate any obscurities. And you  should know that the mirror sometimes takes awhile to get used to a  person, so it may not work on the first—”

“Take me into the realm of the mirrors,” Serena ordered, unwilling to  be made frightened by Jacob’s words. She wanted only to have it done  with.

Her reflection began to shimmer and swirl—distorting first the  outermost edges of the glass, her hair and shoulders, then swimming in  to her ears and forehead and lips and nose. In the background she could  see Briar Rose backing away, her wide-eyed gaze plastered to the  mirror, before her image faded out completely and only Serena’s muddle  of features was left sinking in the frame. She felt dizzy and closed  her eyes and felt the world turn over beneath her.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
The realm of the mirrors was a dark and isolated place. It had been  forgotten in some corner of the world. A place between places. A path  so rarely traveled that its purpose seemed nothing but an afterthought.  The realm was left abandoned. The only living thing that ever stepped  foot into its shadows was Queen Beryl, seeking vengeance, leaving  shallow traces of vanity and envy in her wake.

Serena could hardly breathe. The air was thin and cold and her eyes  strained against the pressure of the dark. She thought she could see  walls somewhere in the distance, but the harder she looked at them, the  farther they receded into a gray, empty mist. She had to close her eyes  and inhale deeply to bring the walls back and then she did not try  quite so hard to see them.

The floor was solid and yet when Serena took an unsteady step forward  she felt nothing to place her foot on, like walking off a cliff. But  looking down, the colorless stone was there to greet her and only then  did her weight shift and she could feel herself grounded again. Her  stomach looped.

There were five walls that shimmered and faded in the gloom. Five walls  with five frames mounted in their centers, frames that were dusty and  chipping with age but must have been divine in their conception. The  true magic mirrors of the storytellers. Gold gilding had brushed off in  flakes and a few remaining gems appeared black with shadow and grime.  Holes where there had once been jewels were left empty.

But their carvings—splintering and cracked though they were—could not  hide the intricate beauty that had once possessed them. Ornate pictures  of merpeople and fae, phoenixes and dragons, dwarfs and elves covered  every inch of the massive frames with such artistic perfection that the  creatures looked ready to breathe in the murky air.

Two of the frames, one on either side of Serena, were empty of glass  save a few fractured pieces that jutted out of the frame. Though those  few remaining shards clung desperately to the carved wood, there was no  reflection in them when Serena searched for her face in theirs. These  were the two broken mirrors.

The glass in a third mirror was completely black and refused to cast  any light into the realm or out from it, and Serena guessed that it was  Lord Grimm’s mirror, hidden somewhere safely where even Beryl could  not track it. Peering into the emptiness gave Serena a sinking,  dreadful feeling, and she turned away.

The mirror at her back was the realm’s main source of light. Through  it Serena saw a blur of gray and green, but looking harder the colors  morphed into shapes and figures and soon she was looking into the vine -draped weapons room. Briar Rose cowered in a corner, staring at the  mirror with terror. From the side, Jacob Grimm emerged with worried  lines in his face. He blinked into the glass and Serena blinked back,  wondering if he could see her.

“Lord Grimm?” she whispered. Her tiny voice bounced off the mirror  and danced around the small room, a ghost whispering back to her. Jacob ’s image beyond the glass did not falter.

Pursing her lips, Serena turned away and found herself facing the fifth  mirror. She stepped toward it. There was a crunch beneath her toes and  she paused. Looking down she saw broken glass scattered across the  floor, the floor that had decided to become solid, glad to have some  un-wicked thing walking across it again. Serena saw the glass, sharp  and black, unreflective. It glittered up at her, the remnants of  something once magical.

With a fresh breath in her lungs—the air was thickening with every  intake—she focused her gaze on the fifth magic mirror. The room beyond  it was navy and gray with a hint of silver glowing on an invisible  horizon.

Serena looked harder and the hint of silver became a silver orb and  then the moon, glowing through the glass of a bay window. And then  there were vines and leaves and thorns, their edges tainted with the  moon’s wash, that slowly gave shape to walls and ceiling and a crystal  chandelier that caught the light glinting beneath the vines that  drooped from it.

The mirror’s haze lifted, burned through by the silver light, and  revealed a four-poster bed draped with silks and a mahogany vanity with  a silver-framed mirror highlighted by glowing candle sconces.

Before the vanity sat a woman.

Beryl gazed adoringly into the vanity’s mirror, running a bejeweled  comb through her thick, cinnamon-colored hair. Her fiery eyes glinted  with the candle’s light, her crimson lips held the hint of a curl—she  was pleased. Her features were as sharp, her cheekbones as high, her  skin as flawless as Serena remembered them. She was beauty of the most  disturbing kind.

Serena realized that the room in which Beryl sat was the royal  bedchambers—the new queen had been quick to claim her sanctuary.

Serena’s second realization was much more shocking, such that her  pulse stopped.

The scene before her was the same as she had seen in the well, only now  it was Beryl combing her hair before the vanity mirror, and it was  Serena lurking in the shadows behind her. Her heart thudding, Serena  recalled the words that Beryl had said to her then—“Silly girl, a  bride does not comb her own hair.”

But Beryl had mistaken her for Snow White, hadn’t she? But then why  would she have called her a bride?

It was too much to wonder. Steeling herself, Serena murmured into the  silence of the realm, “Silly woman, a queen does not comb her own  hair.”

Beryl froze and her gaze shifted upward in the mirror and was met with  Serena emerging from the shadows, from the wall where she had hung her  magic mirror.

It took barely a moment for the new queen to return her expression to  tranquility—sweetness, even. Her lips curled into a sultry smile that  was all confidence and conniving beneath the innocence. “My, my,” she  purred to Serena’s reflection. “Darling princess, you look just like  your mother.”

Startled, Serena stepped back and collided with the bedroom wall—the  magic mirror trembled.

Beryl set the comb down on the vanity and rose from her chair. She was  dressed in a heavy velvet night robe the color of ripe plums. In the  moonlight, her nurtured pale skin looked transparent and the candle  flames behind her were no match for the embers in her eyes.

“It is not surprising, of course,” Beryl continued in her sing-song  trill of a voice. “Your mother was also gifted with beauty at her  blessing ceremony. You natural-born royalty come across it so easy—the  power of charm and a lovely curve of the face are handed to you at  birth. While the rest of us must work for what we become.” Her voice  carried the quietest undertone of bitterness. Then she laughed lightly,  as though a witty thought had just entered her head, and murmured, “I  guess I’m one of the lucky ones—I was gifted with nothing at birth,  and yet beauty and power are mine at last.” Her gaze shifted around  the room, before it fell on Serena and she fluttered her lashes. “I  have worked for it all, though.”

“You don’t know my mother,” Serena blurted, finding her tongue  again, reminding herself of the conviction she’d had moments ago.

“Not well, no. I only met her once, actually. At your blessing  ceremony.” She teasingly tapped a lacquered red nail against Serena’s  chest. Serena pushed it away and skirted the wall toward the bed, eager  to put distance between her and the witch. Beryl seemed indifferent.

“You’re confusing me with Briar Rose. I am not the girl you cursed  sixteen years ago.”

“No?” Beryl smiled now as if Serena had said something very witty. “ Have you not pricked your finger and slept, little princess?” Serena  could not keep the truth, and doubt, from her face. “You see,” Beryl  continued, “you are one and the same.”

“It was a fluke. This world is all wrong. It wasn’t supposed to be  me.”

“My curses are never flukes. You are Princess Briar Rose of Obelia.”

Serena shook her head. “My name is Serena. I’m not from Obelia—I’m  not even from this world.”

Ignoring her, Beryl glided to the large bed and seated herself at its  edge. “They certainly had me fooled, though. They had us all fooled, I  think. Tell me, where have they hidden you all these years? And why  didn’t your mother return with you—I would think she missed being  royalty, not that I would allow her the throne for long. Ah! And that  lovely green-haired girl, wherever did they find her? She must have  been gifted with beauty as well, yes? But of course she was, or I would  have known immediately…. It’s been a curiosity in that kingdom as of  late, though, villagers wondering wherever did the princess get that  strange hair color from? I bet they didn’t plan on that when they  replaced you.”

“You’re mad.”

Drawn from her musing, Beryl fixed her twinkling eyes on Serena again  and hummed, tilting her head to the side and examining Serena from top  to bottom. “I’d thought I was imagining things when I saw you in the  well,” she said, and Serena felt irritation brimming inside of her. “ But when I saw you in the mirror, in the throne room, I was sure—that  same hair, those same eyes. Why, you hardly have an ounce of your  father in you at all.”

A chill crept up Serena’s spine.

“You’re not convinced,” Beryl mused, grinning patiently.

“Why should I believe a word you say? You’re a liar and a thief and a  murderer.”

Beryl pursed her lips together, withholding a chuckle, and the skin  around her lips crinkled—the first traitorous sign of age. Unscathed  by Serena’s insults, she swept them away with a flick of her slender  wrist. “Believe or refuse to believe, it matters not to me. You know  it is true. Every princess knows that she is a princess. She is born  knowing it, and you are no different. But deny it as you like.” With  an exhausted sigh, the new queen lifted herself from the bed and  floated to an armoire. Throwing the doors open, she began to ruffle  through the dresses inside—Queen Luna’s dresses. “I hope they have a  decent tailor in this town. None of these are going to fit me,” she  mumbled to herself, scanning the garments with a trained eye.

Serena watched from the corner, feeling as though the queen had just  dismissed her like a common servant. Which was crazy—she had come here  with a purpose. But now she was having trouble remembering what the  purpose was. Beryl’s words resounded in her, striking a familiar chord  of longing and hope and doubt.

Since before she could remember, Serena had dreamt of being a princess.  As a child, she’d believed it, and thought that for sure her mother  was a queen from some foreign land, dethroned for loving a commoner—or  something equally dramatic. But this was normal, she’d always told  herself. All little girls dream about being princesses. All little  girls dream about being in a fairy tale and falling in love with a  prince.

But she was.

Suddenly faint, Serena stumbled back against the cold window pane and a  tangle of thorny vines reached forward, slithering along her wrist.  Jerking away, Serena’s senses returned.

And she knew that Beryl was telling the truth.

Everything started to make sense. She was Briar Rose—cursed, betrothed  Briar Rose. The Lords Grimm knew. The King of Obelia knew. Her mother  knew.Afraid for Serena’s life, her mother must have sought out the  help of Lord Grimm, and he had decided to hide them both somewhere  where little Briar Rose would be safe. He sent them to his world and  told everyone that the queen had died mysteriously. In order to fool  Beryl about the child, he had replaced Briar Rose with another infant,  blessed the imposter princess with beauty and raised her as royalty.  And so, safe and unsuspected, the Queen of Obelia and her baby daughter  made their way to a different world, where the second Lord Grimm was  there to greet them. She came to know it as home. But not her mother.  Her sad, lonely mother, who had to leave her kingdom, her friends, her  husband, in order to save the life of her only daughter.

And in the end, it hadn’t mattered. Serena had made it back to the  land of the storytellers anyway, and now she was here, in the presence  of the woman who wanted nothing more than to kill her.

Because Serena had defied the curse. Because Serena was the destined  ruler of Obelia. Because Serena would one day be fairest of them all.

Beryl held a fine corset up to the light, analyzing its beads and lace.  It was not terribly unlike the corset she had used in her attempt to  kill Raye. Disinterested, the queen flicked it away and moved on to the  next article of clothing—a brocade cloak.

Serena inched toward the vanity to get a better view of the queen and  her stolen treasures. A thin layer of clouds swam languidly in front of  the moon, filling the room with shadow. Reaching behind her, Serena  took one of the lit candles from the wall. The queen didn’t move, just  held out a long velvet scarf for closer inspection. Then Serena’s eyes  fell on the ivory comb on the vanity and, thinking of the attack of the  poison comb in the well, she reached for it. A moment later, raising  her eyes, she noticed Beryl’s burning stare focused on her again.

Gulping, Serena tightened her grip on the comb and took a steady step  toward the queen. “I’ve come here to stop you, Beryl. I won’t let  you rule over this kingdom. I won’t let you harm the royal family. I  won’t let you do this.”

Lips curling with amusement, Beryl released the scarf and let it swing  back into the shadows of the armoire. “Is that so? And what are you  planning on doing with a hair comb, child? You don’t think all my  accessories are poisoned, do you?”

“I… I’m going to break your mirror with it!”

She noted a faint panicky twitch in the woman’s face, and was glad to  finally achieve a reaction other than mockery.

“My mirror,” Beryl drawled. Turning fully toward Serena she slammed  shut the door of the forgotten wardrobe. Serena jumped back, her heart  lodging in her throat as the queen paced toward her with a furious  glare. “Insignificant little princess. Do you think I came to be queen  of all three kingdoms by being naïve and weak? Do you think I am  unprotected here? Do you think you are stronger than me, more powerful  than me, smarter than me? It’s pathetic that you could even begin to  believe such daydreams. I am your new queen and you are my servant. All  citizens will bow before me, all creatures of the forests and lakes and  skies will cower at my feet—and they will be grateful to have as  strong a ruler as I.” She reached out toward Serena, who was pressed  so tightly against the vanity that the corner was digging into her  thigh. The queen’s sudden, furious movement made her drop the candle  and the flame fell sputtering to the carpet. Beryl’s perfume invaded  Serena’s nostrils and her long fingernails were suddenly digging into  the flesh of Serena’s forearms, but all Serena could think of was  those hate-filled eyes searing her. “So there is the future of this  land,” Beryl screamed. “This is what will be. And no storyteller or  prince or pitiful princess is going to stop it!” Her fists tightened— Serena cried out in pain. Regaining sense and instinct in the terror,  Serena tried to push herself away but had nowhere to go. She ripped one  arm loose, ignoring the scratches that the queen’s nails left in her  skin, and lashed out.

Beryl gasped. In the flickering orange light, Serena saw blood beading  up on the queen’s porcelain cheek where the hair comb had scratched  her.

The queen reached up and backhanded Serena across the face, sending her  tumbling to the groun. Stunned, she looked up, expecting another  attack, but the queen had forgotten her—too intent on peering at her  perfectly ruined face in the vanity mirror. Her face was pure horror as  she ran tender, shaking fingers along the wound.

Serena scurried away, ready to be faced with the queen’s rage at any  moment. Clambering to her feet, she thought to search for a weapon, but  the only thing in reach was the magic mirror. Without hesitation, she  grabbed the wooden frame off its hook and held the glass between her  and Beryl.

The queen whirled around, trembling and fierce. All signs of beauty  were washed away in the room’s trickery shadows, replaced by an  enraged phantom. Serena braced the edges of the mirror and clenched her  teeth, ready for the queen to charge at her or pummel her with a string  of curses and witchcraft.

Instead, Beryl grabbed up her night robe in great fistfuls and  screamed, “Guards!”
Chapter 30: Fire
Iron slippers had been heated over a fire, and the evil queen
had to put them on and dance until she fell down dead.
from Snow White

“Guards!”

Beryl’s shriek hit Serena before the meaning of the word did and she  flinched back against the hall with her face still hidden behind Beryl ’s magic mirror. Lowering the makeshift shield in the cry’s echo, she  looked at ghostlike Beryl who was panting and holding her hand against  the scratch on her face as if it was a mutation.

And then Serena smelled smoke.

The plush carpet had finally succumbed to the candle Serena had dropped  and a fire was growing behind the queen. Her jaw dropping, Serena tried  to move back but was stuck against the wall.

Noticing the smell, Beryl turned to see the flames catching their first  thorny vine, which recoiled from the heat. Backing away, Beryl screamed  for the guards, more hysterical yet, as the fire snuck to the wall and  desperately tried to grab onto the woody branches and leaves and the  heavy draperies that framed the window. Though the briars tried to  shrivel away from the heat, the flames were quicker and they hungrily  engulfed the vines until the entire wall was hidden behind smoke and  fire.

Beryl swooned and Serena thought she would faint, but then she gathered  herself up to her full height and screamed for the guards again—this  time her cry was answered by a pounding on the door. The guard did not  wait for an answer and the black smoke began to seep out of the room.  Seiya appeared in the doorway.

It was the most surprised look Serena had ever seen on the Guardian of  Tragedy as he surveyed the inferno, then the wisp of a queen standing  with sweat on her forehead and one hand still hiding her scratched  cheek. And then he saw Serena against the wall, holding the magic  mirror .

“My room is on fire!” Beryl wailed, her beauty slightly returning in  the form of a distressed damsel. “Please, stop it. Please, put it out!  The whole castle will burn to the ground!”

Seiya peeled his gaze from Serena, all signs of surprise having faded,  and turned cool gray eyes on the queen. “The castle is made of stone,  Your Majesty.”

“Stone that’scovered with these damn vines!”

“You said you wanted to create a spectacle of an entrance, Your  Majesty. I think this will ensure your success.”

Hardly hearing him, Beryl cried out in despair as the fire claimed her  vanity. “My things! My jewels! My… oh, the dresses!” she wailed,  turning toward the armoire and seeing Serena still in the room—she,  too, had been forgotten. The queen took in a smoke-filled breath and  pointed a ghastly finger. “And she has my mirror!”

“I noticed that.”

“Enough of this.Kill her!”

As if he’d been waiting for the command, Seiya drew the sword belted  at his waist, sending Serena shuffling along the wall, but there was no  way she could get around him to escape through the door, and going near  the window was suicide.

But instead of attacking her, Seiya raised the tip of his sword to  Beryl’s throat.

Aghast, his queen looked up at him with stunned eyes.

“Enough of this,” Seiya agreed. “I will kill her, Your Majesty, but  I will kill you as well.”

“Seiya, what are you—”

“We thank you for presenting such a simple solution to our dilemma. My  fellow guardians and I have been plotting for weeks the best way to rid  ourselves of you while retaining the loyalty of your minions. Being  attacked in your chambers by the Chosen One, and both perishing in a  fire where your only remains are ambiguous ashes is the perfect  arrangement. Well done.”

The queen tried to back away from him, but there were flames licking at  her ankles and she stood dazed. Horrified tears began to well in her  cheeks.

“My darling Seiya, my favorite guardian,” she wooed in her saccharine  voice. “You certainly can’t mean this. Did you think that I would be  unfair to you? Don’t you see that I have big, big plans for us—just  you and me. We could rule the three kingdoms together, Seiya. Wouldn’t  that be better than sharing the power with those righteous guardians?”

Serena wanted to listen to them, wanted to know if Seiya was really  going to kill Beryl or if she would be able to talk her way out of harm  with her silver tongue, but the crackling of the fire was making it  difficult to pick up their murmured words. When a branch of flaming  thorns broke from the ceiling and came tumbling down at her feet,  Serena decided that staying any longer would mean death—by burning or  sword was debatable—but death all the same.

Grateful that the two villains were busy distracting each other, Serena  turned the mirror around. She saw the haze of smoke in the reflection,  the growing light from the flames shimmering over her, and her own blue  eyes peering back.

“Mirror,” she said, loudly in case the mirror, too, was having  trouble hearing over the roar of the fire, “take me to the realm.”

There was swaying and rippling and darkness again, followed by Beryl’s  distant scream already fading behind the mirror’s surface.

Serena opened her eyes, panting. The warm, stale air of the realm was  hardly satisfying and the lingering stench of smoke had come with her.  Turning, she looked back into the bedchamber, wondering if the scream  she’d heard had been the screech of a dying woman, or only an angry  one at seeing her enemy escape.

It was the latter.

Beryl was trying to rush for the mirror but Seiya was holding her back  with one arm. She clawed at his grip but he hardly seemed to notice— his cold eyes were locked on the mirror, unable to see Serena watching  them from its depths, but he did not seem particularly concerned of her  escape. The flames danced around them—they were eating through the bed ’s canopy and reaching for the chandelier that dangled precariously  from the ceiling. The glass of the mirror glowed orange and white and  the image became hazy with smoke wafting before it. Beryl’s furious  howls turned into screams of pain as the flames reached her feet and  singed her nightgown and heels. They were eating up Seiya’s pant legs  as well, but he seemed immune to the burns.

The Guardian of Tragedy approached the mirror in two long strides and  Serena backed away from the reflection. Beryl continued to cling to his  arm and reached for her treasured possession when they were close  enough, but he held her back. With his free arm and a smug turning-up  of his lips, Seiya reached down and lifted the mirror from where it had  fallen. Beryl wailed and clawed at him and tried to grab the mirror  away. Her eyes were wide with panic and her face was twisted with  fright and exertion previously unknown to her.

“The best thing about being a guardian,” Seiya said, glancing at  Beryl from the corner of his eye, “is that we have been given our own  powers, and do not require such silly instruments to use them. Unlike  pathetic witches like you.”

Shoving the queen away, Seiya tossed the mirror into the heart of the  flames.

Serena gasped. Her stomach flipped and the whole realm felt as if it  had been thrown along with the mirror. She reached out for the old,  ornately carved frame to steady herself but yelped and pulled back as  the metal singed her hands. Cradling them in front of her chest she  watched with wide eyes as the surface of the mirror showed a blanket of  flames stretching up toward the ceiling and a cloud of smoke that began  to seep through the edges of the glass, polluting the realm. Serena  covered her mouth to with her sleeve. Backing away, she collided with  the frame of Jacob Grimm’s magic mirror. The glass before her started  to melt—thick drops oozing down the sides turned the scene  indistinguishable. Over the tumult of the whipping flames and crackling  sparks, Serena heard Beryl’s crying and saw a shadow collapse on top  of the mirror, helplessly trying to save it.

It was too late for them both. Serena could barely make out Beryl’s  form choking and writhing, losing her battle with death, before the  image melted to black.

She could still hardly breathe, though smoke could no longer infiltrate  the realm from the destroyed mirror and the heat of the fire was  vanishing into the mustiness of the room. Looking around, Serena had  the sensation that the realm was shrinking. The walls were closing in  on her, unable to support themselves with the sustaining power of only  two mirrors.

Briefly glancing at the mirror that Lord Grimm had taken such pains to  hide from the evil queen, Serena shuddered at the infinite blackness  beyond. Sweating and thirsty and unable to keep her legs from shaking,  she forced herself away from the supportive wall and turned toward the  mirror that had been her first entrance into the realm.

A startled cry escaped her.

Andrew’s pale cheeks and green-eyed stare met her. Her heart stopped  and she froze—but while his emerald gaze swept over every the glass,  she realized he could not see her behind it.

Over his shoulder she caught glimpses of soldiers patrolling the room,  gathering up the weapons and watching over the two prisoners in the  corner. Jacob Grimm and Briar Rose had been bound by arms and ankles  and tossed unceremoniously upon a bed of thorns. Serena could not see  Puss in Boots, but then, she could not see most of the room.

Hota came to hover over Andrew’s shoulder, eyeing the mirror with  suspicion. She whispered, “We can’t take it to Beryl.”

“I know,” the elf murmured back, tilting his head so that his blonde  bangs fell into his eyes.

“It would double her power—and her vanity.”

“I know.”

Hota glanced at the soldiers. “We should send them away.”

Nodding, Andrew yelled, “Guards, take the prisoners to the dungeon and  inform the queen that we have captured Princess Briar Rose and Jacob  Grimm. Also tell her that Master Wilhelm Grimm is dead.”

“Would you like us to leave you with an escort, Sir Andrew?” one  asked.

“No,” Hota answered for him. “Leave us. Keep searching the castle  for any more hideaways and hold them for questioning.”

The man bowed and led his guards and the prisoners from the room. As  soon as they were gone, Andrew turned to Hota with raised eyebrows.

“We could hide it somewhere,” the fairy mused.

“I thought that too,” the elf said, “but I’m not convinced it’s  the best solution. Really—what use would we ever have of it? I’m  concerned that it possesses more of a danger to us than an asset. What  if Beryl discovers it? Or what if someone else stumbles on it?”

“We would hide itwell.”

Andrew tapped a finger against the glass, hesitated, and responded,  “What if we destroyed it?”

Gulping, Serena slowly stepped back from the mirror. “No—hide it,”  she whispered. “Beryl’s mirror is gone, she’ll never find this one.  Please,hide it.”

Unaware of Serena’s pleas, Hota cast a sideways glance at Andrew and  considered his suggestion. “It would no longer pose a threat.”

“And that would leave only two mirrors, and I think we can assume that  Wilhelm Grimm’s is hidden very well.”

“And we can take control of Beryl’s mirror when we figure out a way  to kill her.”

Andrew nodded.

“It’s not a terrible idea,” Hota mused, folding her arms and  studying the mirror. “But those guards saw it—they’ll tell the  queen.”

Andrew glanced out toward the hall. “We’ll tell her that we put it  somewhere safe until her rule of the kingdom is unchallenged.”

“All right…” Hota agreed, her eyes squinting as she considered any  repercussions. “All right, let’s destroy it then.” Glancing around  the room filled with swords and axes, she said, “I’ll let you do the  honors.”

Andrew chose an ax from the cluttered floor. He tore it away from the  vines and held it poised over one shoulder. “Hota, dear, we are one  step closer to being the strongest beings in all three kingdoms.”

The fairy shook her head, smiling. “No, Andrew. We already are.”

Serena covered her face with both arms as Andrew swung the ax. A  deafening crash echoed through the realm. Serena felt the shards  piercing her arms and chest and she fell to the ground, crying in pain.  The burns on her hands throbbed, her eyes stung from the smoke, and now  fresh cuts from the broken glass covered her.

Lowering her arms, she looked around and saw the new shards mingling  with the glass that had already been there from the two previously  broken mirrors. There was blood on her arms, but not as much as she’d  been expecting. The room was shaking from the wound inflicted on it and  bits of the walls and ceiling began to crumble, filling the room with  tiny rivulets of dust. The walls groaned from strain, losing their  purpose, their being. The realm had been created to travel between the  five magic mirrors and now only one remained, shadowed and desolate.  Serena crawled toward that black abyss, shaking, horrified to touch the  glass, but otherwise trapped in the shrinking prison. She felt the  gilded, carved frame with her throbbing fingers and used it to pull  herself to her knees. Looking into the depth of the glass she searched  for any sign of sanctuary—a light, a movement, her own frightened  expression reflected back, but there was nothing. Only dark. Only  emptiness.

The floor jolted. Crying out, she grasped the frame tighter and looked  back over her shoulder. The four remaining frames—once beautiful and  now forgotten, were shaking and heaving on their walls. The sound of  stone on stone echoed deafeningly in the tiny chamber. The air grew  heavy. Serena could feel it pressing down on her, filling up her ears  until the pressure pounded against her skull. A large stone tumbled  down from somewhere in the ceiling and more followed.

The realm was caving in on itself.

Panicking, Serena forced herself to stand and face the last magic  mirror. Closing her eyes so that she would not have to look into its  impossible endlessness, she reached both singed hands forward, felt the  soothing coolness of the glass, and forced her body into it as the  realm erupted behind her and pushed her through.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena found herself on her back, gasping for air. The smell of smoke  lingered on her clothes and in her hair and she could still feel the  searing heat from the flames. Her arms throbbed where the glass shards  from the mirrors had cut her. Her lungs ached. She could barely  breathe.

She tried to open her eyes, only to realize that they were already  open. The world was black. She had never known such darkness. A shadow  so thick it pressed down on her chest, choking her. She tried to bring  a hand up in front of her face to see if she could pick out the shape  in the darkness—but it hit something solid only a couple inches above  her. She gasped and reached both hands up. They met with something  solid. Her fingers stretched out, searching down by her thighs, up by  her head, pressing, thudding, but it was all one solid roof above her.  Her breath quickened at the first signs of panic. She was perspiring— it was warm and getting warmer. Whimpering, she pushed her palms out to  the side but they were met with the same barrier only inches away. She  found corners, another wall above her head, and, sliding her body  toward her feet, another wall.

A box? A wooden box? With no latch. No escape.

A coffin.

She cried out. Trembling, she pounded at the box with the little  strength she had left. Where could she be? Where would Lord Grimm have  hidden the last mirror? Somewhere where no one would find it, she was  sure. Somewhere where no one would find her.

Screaming and thrashing she tried to keep the horrible thoughts out of  her mind. Being buried alive. The hot air in her prison deserting her.  This box being discovered years later with her rotting skeleton inside —the scratch marks from her nails in the wooden lid the only evidence  of how she had died.

She screamed until she was hoarse. Tears were hot against her cheeks.  Her knees were bruised from striking the wood. Her fists ached. And she  was so hot, so thirsty, so weak. Sobbing, struggling to suck in the  stale air, she continued to beat at the wood until her pounding fists  became barely slapping palms and then her hands fell down helplessly  beside her. She cried and tried to tell herself that maybe it wouldn’t  be so bad. Maybe it would be like falling asleep, and never waking up.  Like pricking her finger on the needle.

But this time, no one would wake her.

With that thought echoing in her head, a deafening creak resounded  through her prison. It was followed by the heavy sound of wood against  wood and, suddenly, a sliver of light at the edge of the box. Serena’s  heart pounded as she watched the lid slowly slide away. Someone grunted  from exertion. And then there was fresh air in her lungs and she gulped  it in as quickly as she could. Her eyes adjusted and there was the moon —glowing brighter than she had ever seen it.

The lid fell to one side with a thud. There was a cloud of dust and  then seven bearded faces peering down at Serena with even more shock  than she felt herself.

Qualakig broke the silence. “How in Grimm’s name…?”

Serena attempted a shaky smile at the dwarfs, sure they were the most  beautiful sight she’d ever laid eyes on, and reached her hands to grab  onto the edges of her box and pull herself out. Two of the dwarfs came  to her aid and she was able to stumble out over the side of the box and  onto cool, moss-covered ground. She buried her fingers in it and  reveled in the scent of trees and life and fresh air. She couldn’t  drink it in fast enough.

“Why—there’s a mirror in here too!”

Glancing over her shoulder, Serena saw Vlonterp pull the fifth magic  mirror out of the bottom of the box. She hadn’t even realized she’d  been lying on it. Her eyes swept the small clearing, then, and a  terrible chill crept up her spine when she realized that her  confinement had, in fact, been a coffin.

The mirror had been placed into the base of Raye’s coffin, a space  barely a foot high on top of which Snow White had rested beneath her  glass dome. Now, Snow White’s body had been removed to a cluster of  grasses and wildflowers, the glass dome still protecting her. Serena  shuddered at seeing Raye so still and peaceful, just as beautiful as  she had been in life.

“Did you come out o’ the mirror?” Vlonterp asked her, holding the  shabby, wood-framed glass against his chest.

Sitting back on her heels, Serena raised her eyes to the dwarf and  nodded. “It’s one of the magic mirrors,” she croaked, her throat raw  from screaming.

“Course it is, lady. We’re quite familiar with ‘em. It’s jus’… we  didn’t think anyone went to the Realm anymore.”

“Well they won’t after this,” said Serena. “The Realm caved in on  itself when I was in there—after the other mirrors were destroyed.”

The dwarfs exchanged glances, some grunting and others stroking idle  fingers through wiry beards.

“Who would destroy the magic mirrors?” asked Wilopin.

“The guardians,” Serena answered, and watched as the dwarfs’ thick  eyebrows reached upward.

“You don’ mean that wing-ed creature, do ya?”

“Yes, Hota was one of them. Along with Andrew—you remember, the elf— and Seiya, the man with the tattoo on his cheek.”

“Yea, we remember ‘em. But why’d they destroy the mirrors?”

“Because… the mirrors were the only instruments that could challenge  their own powers. With the mirrors gone, the guardians’ rule of the  three kingdoms will be unrivaled.”

Qualakig snorted. “What rule o’ the kingdoms?”

Serena’s eyes shifted over the seven companions. They had left the  castle less than two days before, and yet they had missed everything.  They had no idea of the horrors that had befallen Aysel and all of the  fairy-tale lands. She sighed and wondered how much longer these  isolated woods would be kept safe from the rule of the guardians.

“Yesterday morning,” she explained, “Queen Beryl seized the castle.  She did it with the help of the guardians, who have been working for  her all along. They were the spies in the castle… and they killed Raye  and Jadeite. But they turned on Beryl, greedy to rule on their own, and  now she’s dead. I watched her die through the mirror. And the  guardians are in control. The king and queen are being held captive,  along with the princes.” Her jaw trembled as she forced herself to  utter the most hated words, “And they killed Endymion.”

The dwarfs stared at her a long while, running their fingers along  their belts.

“And also…” she continued, and they shifted uneasily. “The man you  know as Lord Grimm… was also killed.”

“No, tha’ isn’ possible!” growled Fiebrob.

“I’m sorry,” Serena whispered. “But… there is one other thing…  his brother, who everyone thought was dead, is still alive. He came  back when Lord Grimm was killed, but… he’s been captured too, and I  assume he must be in the dungeons with the rest of them.”

“How do you know all o’ this?”

“I saw most of it happen myself.”

“You’re lucky to be alive, li’l miss.”

Serena lowered her eyes. She didn’t feel lucky at all.

“Well we’ve got to do somethin’,” Gralogwid rumbled, gripping the  handle of his ax. “I’m not gonna let this land be turned rotten by  the same brutes that hurt our Snow White.” The other dwarfs nodded,  reaching for their weapons.

Exhausted, Serena sank into the grass. “It isn’t that easy. You can’ t just charge down there, kill the guardians, and make everything all  right again. There are guards—dozens, maybe hundreds of them. And the  entire castle has been covered in a wall of thorns that must be  impossible to get past. And the guardians themselves have magic, you  know that, and I’m sure they’ve been concealing how strong they truly  are.”

But the dwarfs weren’t listening to her. While Gralogwid stood and  considered Serena’s words, the other six set about placing the magic  mirror back into the coffin’s base. They covered it with the heavy lid  and carefully hoisted Raye back onto her proper pedestal, glass dome  and all. When they were finished, Serena had run out of reasons not to  go.

Nodding as though he understood her concerns, Gralogwid said, “You’ve  made it clear that we’re gonna need a plan before we go on down to the  castle—but we’ve still got to go. The longer those guardians ‘ave  control o’ the castle, and our friends are locked in the basement, the  worse off everyone’s gonna be.”

“But what can you do? There are only seven of you!”

“Right now there are,” said the dwarf. “Do ya know where these  dungeons are?”

“No—well, underneath the castle somewhere. I’m not sure. Why?”

“Tha’s gonna be our first stop.”

Serena laughed. “Are you serious? You have to go inside the castle  first to get there. There aren’t any outside exits and if there were I ’m sure they’d be heavily guarded!”

Kepple heaved a mining pick over one shoulder with an ironic grin.  “There aren’t any outside exits yet, li’l miss.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
It didn’t take much convincing for Serena to follow the dwarfs back to  the castle. The very thought of being alone in the dark glen with  nothing but the ominous trees and Raye’s body for company had sent her  running off after them. They had not invited her to join them and  seemed neither glad nor disappointed at her company. They marched  solemnly through broken branches and fallen logs still slick from the  recent rain. Though the dwarfs’ legs were short, they moved steadily  through the forest, always in a straight line, and Serena found it  difficult to keep up with them, more than once being met in the face  with an outstretched branch or tripping over a mischievous tree root.

The sky was showing the first grayish lights of dawn when they broke  through the edge of the forest and looked down on the silent streets of  Aysel. The dwarfs paused and took in the sight of the thorn-encased  castle, looming over the once cheerful town. Serena noticed that the  fog that had come rolling in with the thorns had almost completely  dissipated, and wondered if its only purpose had been to warn them of  Lord Grimm’s imminent death.

Gralogwid pointed the handle of his ax toward some invisible spot at  the edge of town and grumbled, “There’s the spot.”

The dwarfs grunted agreement and that was all—they took off again.

Within minutes they had set up their workstation outside a garden wall  and started digging. Wilopin disappeared into town for awhile, silent  as a thief, and reappeared with his arms laden with shovels and  buckets. Already the dwarfs had cleared a good-sized hole, working fast  as machines. The soft soil gave way under their picks and shovels  without resistance and Serena wondered just how Gralogwid had known  what perfect spot to start at. The hole they made was about four feet  in diameter, just wide enough for them to work in efficiently without  wasting a single shovel-full. About six feet down they hit clay beneath  the dirt, but it hardly slowed, much less deterred, them. They just  kept swinging their tools with unrelenting speed, every move perfectly  in sync with the next, as they burrowed down into the earth. Serena  watched in awe as their tunnel curved toward the castle and soon  Gralogwid, at the head of the line, had disappeared from view.

Wilopin, at the back of the line, pushed a bucket into Serena’s arms.  Taking a breath, Serena set about gathering any rocks and chunks of  soil and roots that had gotten left behind, trying her best to keep up.

It was late afternoon when they hit stone. Or so Serena imagined. Their  tunnel had gone so far from the entrance that all Serena could see of  the world above was a faraway mist of light. The world underneath the  town was cool and damp. The occasional rivulet of water wormed down the  tunnel walls. Every now and then a trickle of sand would fall from the  ceiling, landing on Serena’s head and startling her into thinking the  tunnel was about to cave in, but it never did and the dwarfs never  showed concern. They also never slowed down, even as the light got  farther and farther away and they were stuck in impenetrable darkness.

But the dark did slow Serena down, and so she stopped working,  eventually using the bucket as a stool and watching the dark shadows of  the dwarfs as they plowed on.

The sound of pick on stone was the first thing in hours that made the  dwarfs cease their clockwork movements. Gralogwid tapped at the wall  before them, shifting his tool left and right, up and down, finding  more stone. A solid wall. Serena straightened, chewing the inside of  her cheek. The sound of metal on rock was unmistakable and she knew  what they’d found. They all knew what they’d found.

Those with shovels traded them for picks and hammers and their work  continued. The rock fell away before them just as the dirt and clay  had. Serena held her breath and blinked out the dust that got in her  eyes.

The first stone was the hardest to knock through, but once it fell, its  neighbors tumbled quickly after it. Soon a gaping hole was left where a  rock wall had been, rimmed with dirty, dusky light.

The dwarfs strolled in through the entrance they had made without  caution and Serena deserted her bucket and followed.

They were in a jail cell. Four stone walls and an iron door greeted  them. A hint of candlelight gleamed through a tiny window in the door,  casting deep shadows over the rock. It smelled like earth and sweat and  urine and Serena gagged, clapping a mouth over her hand.

Then she saw Alex, standing mute and wide-eyed in the cell’s far  corner.

The dwarfs also saw the prisoner but ignored him, already scanning the  cell for the best possible exit. When Qualakig and Wilopin started  examining the steel door, Alex said, “I hope that I’m to be included  in this rescue attempt.”

He was filthy and unshaven and probably accounted for a good part of  the cell’s stench, but the polite humor in his question made Serena  forget all that.

“Of course. Although this isn’t so much a rescue attempt as an  ambush.”

Alex grinned and Serena knew he’d been hoping for just that.

A deafening clang brought their attention back to the door, which  Qualakig had just pummeled with his hammer, leaving it dangling  precariously on one hinge.

“Qualakig! There could be guards down here!”

“Then they’ll be dead guards.”

Serena frowned, but the dwarf did not seem to believe in discretion and  with another swing of the hammer, the door crashed out into the stone  hallway beyond.

“I don’t think there are any guards,” Alex comforted. “They’ve  only been down twice since Beryl took over—once to bring water and  once to bring more prisoners.”

Serena glanced at him. “Did you see the prisoners?”

“No,” he said, his jaw working angrily, “but I heard them.” His  expression made it clear that the voice he had heard had been that of  Princess Briar Rose.

Serena turned back toward the door. The dwarfs had already ambled into  the hallway and split up, knocking down iron doors as fast as they  could.

“They don’t waste any time, do they?” Alex mumbled.

Serena peeked her head inside the next doorway and saw two maids  huddled together in the back corner, tears streaking their dirty faces.  With a gentle smile at the girls, Serena turned back to Alex.

“You follow those four,” she said, pointing down the hallway where  four of the dwarfs had already broken down six doors. “Round up all  the prisoners and explain to them we’re here to help.”

Alex nodded and turned away as Serena set about comforting the  terrified maids. It wasn’t as hard as she thought. Most of the  prisoners recognized her and were more than ready to entrust their  lives to a familiar face. They followed her down the hallway, helping  her comfort more prisoners and coax them out of their cells until she  had a small army trailing behind her. Or what would have been a small  army if they’d had any strength at all. Or any weapons, for that  matter.

She could not keep them quiet. As more people were released their  racket grew, crying of both the good kind and bad, cheers at being  reunited with loved ones, children wailing from confusion and hunger.  She expected to hear guards come storming through the dungeon’s  labyrinth at any moment, but what she finally heard was her name being  called above the commotion. Alex was jogging toward her, his own swarm  of prisoners behind him.

“This is everyone from that end,” Alex said as he pushed his way  through the crowd. “We need to get them out of here.”

“Good idea. Why don’t you start showing them back to the tunnel?”

Surprised, Alex shook his head. “You take them, the women and children  especially. Any men willing to fight can stay.”

“I’m not going anywhere!”

“This is no place for a lady. It’s for your own safety.”

“You have no idea what I’ve been through, okay? I’m not about to  bail out now.”

“Serena! Darling Serena!”

Serena whipped around to see Queen Luna parading toward her with arms  open. The queen wrapped her in a tender hug. The servants in the  hallway tried their best to bow to the rightful queen, but it was  difficult in the crowded hall and Luna was ignoring them anyway.

Returning the queen’s hug, Serena felt a jolt of happiness, something  she hadn’t felt for days. Over Luna’s shoulder she saw Artemis  nearby, offering confident smiles and words of comfort to the crowd.

“Your Majesty, we have to get the women and children out of here. The  dwarfs dug a tunnel that will take you outside of the city. You have to  lead these people out, do you understand?”

“Yes, dear, of course. And the men?”

“Anyone who can fight will be needed.”

She nodded, having expected as much, and turned toward her husband. But  he’d already heard and within moments Luna was sweeping the women and  children and elderly out to freedom. Serena was grateful to see them  go, feeling that if she succeeded at nothing else, at least this had  been accomplished.

And then she saw Lita and Amy rushing toward her, Nephlite, Zoicite,  and Malachite in their wake. There was an abundance of hugs and more  joyful tears, but it was Malachite’s pleading voice that carried above  all the others.

“Mina—have you seen Mina?”

Serena looked up at his frightened gray eyes and thought back to the  last time she had seen Mina, hiding in a small closet with baby  Cytherea in her arms, planning her escape. “Not in a long time, but…  I think she might have escaped. She had Cytherea with her and she had a  plan for getting out…” She trailed off and couldn’t tell if  Malachite’s expression was hopeful or desperate.

“And has Endymion returned?” Zoicite questioned, clasping Amy’s  hand.

Serena’s heart clogged her throat and she looked away, guilt crawling  up her spine. She hadn’t even thought to tell Luna.

Briar Rose appeared out of the darkness of the tunnel, ghostlike in her  torn and dirt-stained wedding dress.

“Prince Endymion is dead.”

To Serena’s ears, Briar Rose was cruel for saying the words, but she  was still grateful that the princess had saved her from having to say  them herself.

“Dead?” whispered Nephlite.

Serena nodded.

“How?”

“I apologize, but we haven’t the time—” Alex started.

“Murdered by the guardians,” Serena interrupted. “Same as Jadeite.”

“Well tha’s the last of ‘em,” came Kepple’s voice from the  distance.

“Wonderful, because anyone who is unable to fight needs to get out of  here immediately,” Alex said. “The exit is this way.” He was trying  not to look at Briar Rose, but she could not take her eyes from him.

“I’m not leaving you,” said Lita, gripping Nephlite’s hand. “I can  stay and fight.”

“No!” barked Nephlite.

“No, Lita, you can’t,” Serena confirmed. “I have a task for you.  And Amy, too. You need to find Mina and tell her what’s happening. And  someone has to let the villagers know their royal family is safe and  working to overthrow the guardians.”

“You mean Beryl.”

“Beryl’s already dead. There isn’t time to explain, just go.”

“Beryl’s—”

“Listen to her,” Nephlite murmured, kissing Lita’s temple. “I will  fight better knowing you’re safe.”

“Don’t you dare die,” she said, clutching the front of his tunic, to  which she received a nod and a kiss. Zoicite and Amy shared their own  good byes and Alex explained how to find the tunnel—Jacob Grimm,  waiting at the edge of the crowd, would lead them out. Serena refused  to go, to Alex’s dismay.

As Briar Rose was ushered toward safety, Alex stopped her with a near  undetectable finger on her laced sleeve. “I am glad to see you are  unharmed, princess.”

She looked at him with the practiced gaze of royalty and said, “You  had better not die either,” before being led silently away.

“Lady Serena, are you sure you won’t go with them?” asked Zoicite.

He was met with a stern glare. “I’m staying,” Serena declared. “I  have a personal vendetta against the guardians.”

“We all do. It’s just… you don’t know how to fight.”

“I won’t be in the way, if that’s what you’re worried about. I can  be useful. I know more about the guardians and their plans than anyone  here.”

“I hope that’s true,” said Malachite, folding his arms. “Because I  do believe this is the point in which we make a plan.”

They stood around looking at each other in the dimly lit stone hallway —seven dwarfs, three princes, a royal guard, and the Chosen One.

Finally, Gralogwid swung his axe over one shoulder. “I say we storm  the place.”

“Easy to say when you have a weapon,” said Nephlite. “The rest of us  would be easy targets up there.”

“And remember—it isn’t just the guardians we need to worry about.  Beryl brought a slew of guards with her and I’m sure they’re all  under the guardians’ control now. They probably haven’t even been  told that Beryl is dead.”

“Serena’s absolutely right. We can’t charge up there blindly. We  need to be prepared. We need weapons and a concrete plan.”

“The northwest weapons room isn’t far from the entrance to the  dungeons.”

“The entrance to the dungeons will be well-guarded.”

“The dwarfs can go first, deal with anyone we meet.”

“It will send up an alarm if there are dead bodies lying around.”

“We’ll try our best to stay discreet,” said Malachite, “but an  alarm may be inevitable.”

“And after we’ve reached the weapons room? What then?”

With a glance at the dwarfs, Malachite shrugged. “Then we storm the  place.”

Chapter 31: Storming the Castle
When it was completely dark outside, the owners of the cottage  returned.
They were seven dwarfs who searched in the mountains for minerals with  their picks and shovels.
from Snow White

The entrance to the dungeons was, in fact, unguarded. As the party  slipped into the castle’s hallways that still thrived with thorns,  they were surprised to meet no one at all. Silence hung in the air with  the thick, drooping vines, interrupted only by the shuffle of boots as  they made their way to the armory. Serena followed behind the dwarfs,  careful to follow in their footsteps and avoid the thorns below—she  was still barefoot. After twenty minutes of creeping, the group reached  the weapons room without event.

The door was open, slashed vines hanging forlornly along the frame. The  room itself was just as Serena remembered it. The quietly shifting  briars gave life to the stone walls. The toppled suits of armor lay in  broken heaps. Weapons and shields littered the floor. Serena recognized  the shield that Puss in Boots had hid beneath last time she was in the  room. She saw the heavy blue curtain barely clinging to its iron rings,  and the open stairway it revealed leading up into the tower. Shadows  mingling with a pale beam of sunlight drifted down the stairs.

In the far corner of the room was Jacob Grimm’s magic mirror—nothing  left but a dingy wood frame and shards of broken glass.

Serena nearly choked on the grief that welled up in her. Last time she ’d been in this room, she could still smell Endymion’s blood. She  could still taste the sweat from his lips. The little beam of light  coming down the stairwell captivated her—Endymion’s ghost, returning  from the prison of the tower and death.

“You know what’s up there?” Malachite whispered behind her.

Serena’s heart leapt. She could still feel the weight of Endymion’s  body against her, still warm from living. Gulping, she nodded and  licked her lips, then turned to Malachite with glistening eyes. “A  spinning wheel.”

Malachite nodded, an ignorant smile on his mouth. “The same spinning  wheel that Mina used to spin straw into gold,” he explained, but  Serena was not listening. She walked away and pretended to examine a  short sword. The princes and Alex also set to choosing their weapons.  Serena decided that the sword was as good as anything and looked around  at her companions. The dwarfs, who seemed perfectly content with their  axes and picks, were huddled respectfully around the broken mirror,  gazing into the reflection-less shards of glass.

Serena hoped that Raye was protecting the fifth magic mirror well.

They all chose swords, except Zoicite who was drawn to a longbow and  quiver that he filled up with scattered arrows.

Slipping his sword into a sheath that didn’t quite fit, Alex muttered,  “Let the storming begin.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena knew that she should have been afraid, wandering through the  empty hallways of the forlorn castle. She knew that the guardians or  soldiers could be around any corner, and that they would not hesitate  to kill her and her companions. But she wasn’t afraid. Rather, she  felt like an empty shell, just as empty as the castle corridors. There  was no place for fear inside of her.

There was room for sadness, though, at the suffering everyone had felt  the past few days. And anger. Anger at those who had caused this. Anger  at those who had used her for their evil plans. Anger at those who had  murdered Endymion. This was what kept her moving through the hallways,  her foraged short sword in her fist.

She was determined to find the guardians and, if she had the power to  do so, she would see them dead. And then she would go home. These were  her only thoughts. If she died trying to accomplish them, so be it. She  was sad for her mother, who would never know what had happened to her  little princess daughter. But her mother knew of the curse—she knew  everything. Perhaps she would figure out Serena’s fate if Serena never  made it home.

Serena felt awkwardly loud beside her companions who were all used to  hunting and trekking silently through forests and mountains. She  shuffled along in her black dress that was stained with sweat and  blood. Her swollen feet made their way through the castle, ever-fearful  of the protruding thorns. For a long time the group’s slow, deliberate  advances seemed unnecessary. There appeared to be no one in the castle  to discover them.

This was not true, of course, which they realized as they neared the  throne room. A new sound mingled with their footsteps, a distant  mumbling that grew louder until it was one reverberating voice,  magnified by some unknown magic so that it filled the hallways with its  words.

It was Andrew, the Guardian of Romance, who spoke.

Serena shuddered when she recognized his voice, the voice that had once  been so calming and kind to her, from the elf she had deemed such an  ally. Seiya had always been cold toward her, as he was toward everyone.  Hota, while good-natured, had seemed aloof and always interested in  something else, something new or exciting. But Andrew had taken a keen  interest in Serena, the Chosen One, and her well-being in the world of  the storytellers. She now knew why. He had been using her.

“It is a great tragedy that fills us all with remorse,” Andrew was  saying. Serena could hear him clearly as they crept into the servant’s  hallway that surrounded three sides of the throne room, separated only  by the occasional pillar and a heavy blue drapery. “Know that we are  doing all we can to find Her Majesty’s murderer, and when that  murderer is found, she will be dealt a swift and terrible punishment.  And we are not far from discovering her whereabouts—as you know, she  is likely still within the very walls of this castle. Know that she is  not dangerous. She is only a girl who tricked the queen’s soft heart  into trusting her. Our queen’s kindness became her undoing.” Andrew  paused, faking sorrow.

When Serena and her companions reached the end of the hallway, it was  Alex who was brave enough to peek through the curtains. He moved one  aside with a surgeon’s patience and held an eye to the opening.

“Know that nothing has changed. Our objectives remain the same,”  Andrew continued. “We have successfully captured Aysel and we will  rule this land. As Her Majesty’s trusted advisers, the other guardians  and myself will assume the throne. We know that Her Majesty promised  each of you great wealth, plunders from this kingdom, and we will  follow through on her promise. And each of you will be entitled to high  ranks or honor—a worthy gift for being loyal, brave, and strong. These  promises will not be forgotten even as we mourn the loss of our  beautiful queen.”

Alex replaced the curtain and nodded at the others. There was a door at  the end of the hallway that led back into the castle’s main corridors.  Alex nudged it open, peering around to check that there were no guards  before slipping out of the servant’s hall.

“About 120 men, all armed,” Alex said when they gathered around him  in the hallway. “Plus the elf, giving the speech.”

“What about Seiya and Hota?” Serena asked.

Alex shook his head. “I did not see them, though they could have been  behind the crowd.”

“No, if they were there, they would have been on the platform,”  Serena mused, wondering where the other guardians could be. “Hota was  with Andrew when they kidnapped Jacob and Briar Rose, and last I saw  Seiya was in Beryl’s—Luna and Artemis’s chambers, right before the  mirror was destroyed and Beryl died. Maybe he’s still there, cleaning  up the mess?”

“Possibly…” Malachite muttered, arms folded. “But that was hours  ago. We shouldn’t count on anything—they could be anywhere.”

They peered around, as if the guardians could emerge from the very  walls that surrounded them, but the hallway seemed as deserted as the  rest of the castle. They could still hear Andrew’s voice from the  throne room.

“Then we’ll deal with them when we find them,” said Nephlite.  “Right now we have 120 other men to worry about. And we’ve gotten  lucky that they’re all in one place, and all unsuspecting of an  attack. We should take advantage of this.”

“120 of them and 12 of us,” muttered Zoicite, his eyes scanning the  group.

“10 to 1 soun’ like fine odds to me,” Qualakig grunted, hefting an  ax onto his shoulder. Though the dwarfs had maintained quiet since they ’d entered the castle, it was clear they were becoming impatient.

“Getting rid of the guardians needs to be our top priority,” said  Alex. “Without anyone to lead them, Beryl’s guards will be in  upheaval. Beryl did not like to bestow power on others—she felt easily  threatened. I doubt there are any among them who rank high enough to  regain control of the throne and capture loyalty from the rest once the  guardians are gone. We would have little trouble ridding the kingdom of  these intruders.”

“But if we charge in there now, we’ll have no chance of reaching  Andrew,” said Nephlite. “By the time we got close enough to attack  him, he would have fled for sure, and then they would be alerted to our  presence.”

“If we could get close to him at all. 120 men is nothing to scoff at. ”

“So then we do not charge. We wait for him to come out.”

Slowly, Alex nodded, his eyes faraway with ideas. “Yes, that will be  best. How many main entrances are there to this room?

“Three,” answered Malachite, “excluding doorways that lead into the  servants hallway, there are three entrances. The main one in the back  that leads toward the southern entrance, and two up by the thrones.”

“The guardian will likely use one of those two,” said Alex, “Would  you agree?”

“I would think so.”

“So we will split up, six to each door, and when he leaves the room we  will ambush him. Then we will only have the other guardians and 120  confused soldiers to worry about.”

“Piece o’ pie,” said Vlonterp, cinching his belt tighter. “Lead the  way.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------
Serena found herself creeping through more vine-laden hallways between  Alex and Zoicite, trailing behind three of the dwarfs. The rest of the  party had skirted around the other side of the throne room, eager to  get to the other door. They stayed silent, always cautious, though they  could hear Andrew’s speech continuing in the room just a few walls  away.

The door to the throne room was set into an alcove, flanked on either  side by more doors leading into the servant’s corridors. The men  separated and slipped into the hallways until Andrew’s speech was over  and the unsuspecting guardians left the throne room. Serena trailed  behind them, slowed down by her dress which kept snagging on thorns.  But before she could join her companions in their hiding place, she  glanced down a dark hallway that extended back toward the guestrooms,  and froze. At first she thought it was only a trick of the light that  had shown her a slender silver blade among a clump of vines down that  hallway, but as her eyes strained she knew that what she saw was real.

A single abandoned sword lay in the foliage.

She recognized the hilt immediately.

It was Endymion’s sword.

“Lady, what is it? Hurry!” hissed Alex, holding the door for her.

Serena shook her head. “It’s all right. I just thought—I’ll be no  help in the fighting. I thought perhaps I would hide somewhere until it  was over, so that I would not be in your way.”

Alex nodded and it was clear that he’d thought she was in the way from  the beginning. “It may be for the best. You know a safe place?”

She nodded. “Be careful.”

Zoicite appeared behind Alex, frowning. He was not so keen on  separating but Serena was careful not to look at him. “We will meet up  as soon as possible,” she said, and then turned and swept down the  hallway. When she looked over her shoulder a moment later, the door was  shut and she was alone in the vast corridor. Gulping, she focused on  the sword. She was still holding the short sword she had chosen in the  weapons room, but she felt no attachment to it. It was only metal.  Endymion’s sword was something else altogether.

As she came closer she could see dried blood along the blade’s edge.  Stooping, she took the hilt into her hand. It was heavier than her  short sword. The hilt was larger, but the carvings fit her hand and  leant themselves to a tighter grip.

She slipped her own short sword into the scabbard at her hip and held  Endymion’s sword with both hands. It gave her the strangest feeling of  calm, as if Endymion was still at her side, watching over her. She knew  that she was not proficient with a sword, but she hoped that this  weapon would protect her just as its master would have. She felt a  surge of confidence. With this sword, she would defeat the guardians  and avenge Endymion’s death.

Because that is what a fairy-tale heroine would have done.

Mumbled words broke into Serena’s thoughts. Gasping, she looked up,  but the hallway was still deserted. She turned back toward the throne  room—all doors were closed. She could imagine her companions hunched  in anticipation, awaiting the ambush. Andrew’s voice droned on.

Serena turned back to the sound of footsteps. The voice that  accompanied them was deep and sullen and she immediately knew that  Seiya was approaching.

Holding her breath, Serena slipped into the nearest door, leaving it  slightly ajar. This was good, she told herself. With any luck, Hota  would be with Seiya as well, and then they would have all three  guardians in one spot. Perhaps they could kill them all in one fell  swoop, before raising alarm.

Leaning against a wall, she surveyed the room. It had once been a  sitting room. A lovely sofa sat in one corner, against a wall of finely  furnished windows. A grand piano faced the far wall, framed on all  sides by tapestries. Everything in the room had been ravished by the  thorns, but the Serena was immune to the sight.

She held her ear close to the door, listening.

“…tunnel led beyond the town wall,” Seiya was saying. “I’m sure it  was dug by dwarfs.” There was a pause when Serena heard nothing but  footsteps, and then, “Yes, every cell was empty. I told you we shouldn ’t have left the dungeons unguarded. We were too careless.”

Another pause and Serena began to make out Hota’s high-pitched voice,  too quiet at first to make out but sporadic words.

“The men will be disheartened when they hear that the royal family has  escaped,” Seiya said. “Perhaps we should tell them they’ve all been  executed and disposed of.”

“…hardly believable.” Hota’s voice became clear and Serena was  startled to realize they were already right outside her door. She  gulped, wondered what she would do if they checked that room, but they  walked by without pause.

“But if we could convince them of it, we could insight more fear and  respect from them.”

“They will fear us enough if ever we give them reason to.”

“Then are we only to tell them that everyone escaped, from right  beneath our noses? How weak we shall look.”

Serena peered through the door’s sliver of an opening, watching the  two guardians approach the throne room—and her hiding companions.  Surely her friends knew that they were there, could hear the guardians  from behind their closed doors. Would they attack them as they got  nearer, or hold their ground and wait?

Endymion’s sword felt heavy in her hand and Serena thought, briefly,  that she could end this now. Her grip tightened. How easy it would be  to rush at them from behind, stab Seiya in the back, cut Hota down in  mid-flight. She could be a hero. There was no one around to save either  of them, and her companions would come to her aid if she called for  them.

Seiya and Hota continued down the hall, ignorant of her plotting.

Serena grit her teeth. Her chance was slipping away with every step  they took. She cursed her lack of courage. She tried to call up her  anger, her bitterness, her hatred of these two guardians, but suddenly  there was fear. The fear that had been so absent before filled her arms  and turned her legs to lead.

She tried to push her feet out the door. She imagined herself raising  the weapon and taking them both before they had any chance to  retaliate.

But she could not.

She could not bring herself to open the door. Could not bring herself  to raise the sword.

What would Endymion have thought? She had only one purpose now, to  avenge him. Would she fail him now, when all else was lost?

Her eyes shut. Seiya’s footsteps grew quieter. They must be near the  doors now, near her companions. Would they attack? Would she join them?

“At least I have some good news,” Hota said.

Seiya’s footsteps ceased. “And what is that?”

“In the room where we discovered Briar Rose and the lost Grimm brother …”

“Where you destroyed the mirror.”

“Yes. There was something else we found. A stairway that led to a  tower.”

“So?”

“Prince Endymion was in the tower.”

Serena’s breath caught. Her heart tightened.

“Or rather, his body was. It seems that you managed to kill the  blasted prince after all.”

Seiya grunted—a sound of approval.

Serena leaned against a wall, sick to her stomach. Never had she felt  so cowardly.

Then a quiet mewing startled her and there was a small gray cat making  his way out from beneath the grand piano. “Puss in Boots,” Serena  murmured as the cat jumped onto the piano’s bench and began licking  its paws.

“They must have overlooked you when Jacob was captured,” she  whispered, beckoning to the cat with her fingers.

Puss glanced up at her with his garnet red eyes, tilted his head, and  then turned and jumped onto the piano’s ivory keys.

The untuned piano rang with one loud, echoing clamor. Withholding a  cry, Serena turned back to the door—the sound was as loud as a  churchbell in the otherwise silent castle. She panted, the off-key  noise still bouncing off the walls, and listened for the return of the  guardians.

Frightened of the sound, Puss jumped down and hid beneath the piano  again.

It was not long before footsteps were in the hallway. Tightening her  grip on the sword’s hilt, Serena backed away, terrified eyes glued to  the door. She prayed that it was her companions coming for her.

The footsteps stopped on the other side of the door. Serena tried to  shrink into a corner. Slowly, the door was pushed open by the tip of a  sword. Serena’s hands ached from gripping Endymion’s sword too  tightly. Then her eyes met a black teardrop tattoo and a stormy gaze.

Seiya stared back at her. She could not tell if he was surprised. Over  his shoulder, Hota hovered on fragile dragonfly wings, one eyebrow  quirked as her gaze swept over the Chosen One.

Her limbs beginning to tremble, Serena forced herself to breathe. She  pushed herself away from the wall and barely loosened her grip on the  sword—barely. Looking between the two guardians she began to realize  how stupid she was for not striking when the perfect opportunity had  presented itself.

“Well…” Hota drawled. “I wondered if we might see you again.”

Serena did not trust her voice and could not respond. She pursed her  lips, steeling herself for what was to come. She tried to play out the  impending fight in her mind. Seiya would attack with his sword and she  would attempt to dodge. If she was lucky, he would leave himself open  for a counterattack. Hota would be harder to hit—so small and quick.  But they would both underestimate Serena.

No, she knew that wasn’t true. They knew exactly what she was capable  of, and defeating either of them by sword was not it.

But she had to try.

“Why are you doing this?” she hissed.

Hota folded her arms over her chest. “Why does everyone feel compelled  to ask that? Shouldn’t it be obvious? Honestly, Lady Serena, if you  were given the opportunity to be powerful, renowned, and wealthy, to  have complete domination over all the land, to be worshiped and admired  by every living creature—wouldn’t you take it?”

“No.”

Pressing her lips, Hota nearly smiled. “Yes you would. Everyone would.  We guardians have lived in the shadows of the storytellers for far too  long. It is our time to rule. It is our time to make the stories what  we wish them to be.”

“And you wish them to be full of evil and death?”

“There will be ample tragedy and drama, of course.” Now she truly was  smiling. “But Andrew is still around, so I suppose he’ll try to keep  up some semblance of romance.”

“Andrew knows nothing of romance! The three of you are destroying  every morsel of true love in this land. Killing Raye and Jadeite,  trying to lure Endymion and Briar Rose into a false destiny, and then  killing—killing—” Her voice choked her and she looked away as tears  brimmed in her eyes.

“If Andrew were here, he might care,” Seiya muttered. His sword was  still poised to hold open the door, but he slowly withdrew it and  stepped into the room, his gray eyes scanning for hidden enemies.

Gathering herself, Serena swiped at her eyes with her sleeve and felt  her hatred for the guardians boiling inside her. Her very skin crawled  to see them and to see Seiya so thoughtlessly holding the sword that  had no doubt slain her prince.

“Did you assist in freeing the prisoners?” Hota asked.

“Yes.”

The fairy nodded. Seiya’s emotionless eyes were on Serena again and  she could tell that he was unconcerned about the sword in her hand.

“Smart girl, going to the dwarfs like that. I see that we made a  tactical error. I assure you it won’t happen again.” Hota’s wings  fluttered and after a long moment of analyzing Serena with those  piercing purple-black eyes, she said, “I think I will offer you a  bargain, Lady Serena.”

“I think I will decline it.”

“I believe you have not come this far on your own. I do not think the  dwarfs tunneled all the way into the dungeons and then left you to fend  for yourself, nor do I think the princes of the castle would have  abandoned you without making a stand for their home and kingdom. And  so, I offer you this. Tell us the whereabouts of your friends and we  will spare your life. If you are very good, we may even offer you a  position under our new rule. Scullery maid, perhaps.”

“I would never betray them.”

“Then we have no use of you and will kill you now.” Hota watched as  Serena straightened her spine and lifted Endymion’s sword into what  she thought might be a defensive pose.

“Then kill me.”

Seiya’s sword darted forward, slicing into Serena’s upper arm. With a  cry, she stumbled backwards—more from surprise than pain.

“Do not think it will be a difficult task, or that we would hesitate  to do so.” Hota’s chipper voice never faltered. “That was your first  warning. I propose the same bargain again.”

Serena shook her head and locked her eyes on Seiya’s sword,  concentrating, hoping she could dodge it the next time. “Never.”

The sword whipped toward her again, cutting into her other arm. She  yelped, no less startled than the first time. She’d barely had time to  move and he’d anticipated and acted on it. It occurred to her then  that all the concentration and courage in the world could not help her  in this fight. His skill was simply too far beyond her.

She felt blood seeping into the fabric of her sleeves, but her body did  not register the pain.

“I will not ask again, Lady Serena.”

“And I will not answer again!” she screamed, lunging forward with all  her strength. She swung Endymion’s sword down from above her head,  aiming at Seiya’s right shoulder.

Seiya sidestepped and smacked Serena from behind with the flat edge of  his sword. She cried and fell to her hands and knees. A thorn punctured  her palm and she pulled away, dropping the sword to cradle her hand.

But the feel of sharp metal on the back of her neck froze her. Seiya  pressed the point of his sword just hard enough that it broke the first  layer of skin.

“Where are your friends?”

Serena closed her eyes and took a long breath, believing it to be her  last. She pictured Endymion before her and thought that at least she  would be with him soon.

Something whizzed by her ear and then she heard Seiya’s strangled gasp  and the sword was gone. Serena opened her eyes.

Through the door stood Zoicite with bow poised, already reaching for  another arrow. “Serena, move!”

She grabbed Endymion’s sword and scurried away, just as Alex charged  into the room. His sword clashed with Seiya’s, who had already  recovered from the surprise attack. Zoicite’s arrow jutted from his  left shoulder—it must have barely missed his heart—but Seiya fought  as though it was not even there. Steel rang against steel as they  pushed their way back and forth in the small parlor.

Hota hovered near the piano, holding both hands in front of her,  following the paths of the swords. Her lips were moving and it was  clear she was trying to conjure a spell to aid Seiya’s plight, but  every time a dark cloud formed around her fingers, one of Zoicite’s  arrows flew toward her and sent her fluttering away. Serena crouched  against the wall, her sword forgotten. Three dwarfs came charging into  the room, picks and axes swinging. Hota aimed a crackling cloud of  magic at Zoicite, hovering high enough to avoid the dwarfs’ weapons as  she let the burst of magic fly. Zoicite threw himself to the ground.  The magic hit the wall behind him and the vines that were there  shriveled into blackened twigs.

All three dwarfs paled at the sight—ever distrustful of magic. When a  second cloud started sparking around Hota’s fingertips and she  sharpened her gaze on the closest dwarf, he took off running into the  hallway. His companions wasted no time in following him, and the fairy  followed. Zoicite followed her.

Serena glanced at the duel between Alex and Seiya. They seemed locked  in a draw. Their skills rivaled each other, each quick and graceful and  strong. Seiya was hindered by his wounded shoulder, but Alex had not  eaten a proper meal in days. They seemed perfectly matched.

Serena considered jumping to Alex’s aid but knew that she would be  more a distraction than anything else. And so, with a breath to gather  her wits, she clambered to her feet and rushed into the hallway.

She crashed into Andrew.

Stumbling backward, Serena was barely able to keep from falling to the  ground. The elf stared at her with surprise that he quickly covered  with his signature impish grin.

“Ah, Lady Serena, I should have known you would somehow be involved in  all this. I always told the other guardians not to underestimate you.”

She ignored him, her eyes fearfully scanning the sight before her.

Behind Andrew stood at least three dozen guards. Near the front of the  crowd, Zoicite and the three dwarfs had already been bound at the  wrists and were being jostled together with swords poised to slay them  at the first movement. And more guards were streaming into the hallway  from the throne room.

Serena took an unsteady step backward, but with a flick of Andrew’s  wrist, two guards rushed forward and grabbed her arms. Ropes were  tightened around her wrists, but she was in too much shock to feel  them. Had it been only minutes ago that she had felt so confident in  her companions and their plan to overthrow the guardians? Had they ever  stood a chance to begin with? Was this all her fault?

Andrew peered through the doorway into the parlor where the sounds of  sword fighting could still be heard. He nodded to a few more guards and  they stormed in. There was scuffling and strangled grunts. It was not  long before the guards returned, dragging Alex between them. Seiya  followed. Sweat on his forehead was the only sign that he had exerted  himself in the battle.

“Take them into the throne room. We will administer punishment there, ” Andrew commanded. As Serena was guided down the hallway, she saw  Hota floating around the crowd, looking equally exhausted until she  landed on Andrew’s shoulder and scowled.

“There will not be any more uprisings,” she hissed into his ear.  Though Serena was close behind them, she could barely hear her small  voice over the trumping of boots.

“No,” said Andrew. “We will make a fine example of this lot. No one  else will dare interfere with our plans.”

Serena seethed. For the first time she felt throbbing in her arms where  Seiya had cut her with his sword, but she suppressed the pain and  replaced it with disgust. She tried not to feel fear, and it was made  easier by feeding off as much anger as she could manage. She tried to  remind herself that there was still hope. Though they had captured this  half of their band, there was still Malachite, Nephlite, and the four  remaining dwarfs hidden on the other side of the throne room. Certainly  they would think of another plan. Surely they would find some way to  overthrow the guardians and rid the castle of these intruders.

But as soon as she was pushed into the throne room, that hope crumbled  to the marble floor. There were the rest of her companions, kneeling in  the center of the room—bruised and bloodied and bound like the rest of  them. Serena’s heart shrank. Her captors forced her to kneel beside  them, along with the remaining prisoners, as the guardians once again  took their place on the platform at the front of the room. Seiya looked  just as bored as always, but Hota wore a smug grin and Andrew nodded  contentedly as Serena and her allies were herded before him. When the  room had quieted, Andrew clasped his hands behind his back and  addressed the soldiers.

“Men, you have succeeded in a great feat and again your bravery shall  be rewarded. You already realize the significance of these captures— the sons of the royal family who had escaped from our dungeon and  attempted to reclaim this kingdom away from us. Be proud of your  victory today, for it is the greatest victory we have yet to claim.”

Serena withheld a snort. 120 of their men against her 12 hardly seemed  like a great accomplishment.

“And what more, you have captured one member of the enemy who will be  more valuable to us than any other.” Smirking, Andrew gestured at  Serena. Her heart jumped into her throat as the two men at her side  pulled her to her feet and led her onto the platform. “Though she  looks harmless and innocent, this girl is one of our enemy’s most  dangerous assets. She is the Chosen One, selected by the late  storyteller Grimm to save this land from certain corruption.” He  chuckled and some of the men smiled grimly at the thought. “She is, in  fact, the very same witch who murdered Her Majesty, Queen Beryl.”

A ripple ran through the crowd but Serena did not know if it was fear  or bitterness or surprise. Either way, she felt many cold eyes focused  on her. She squirmed against her captors.

“I promised that she would be found, and she has. I promised that she  would pay for the crimes she has committed, and she shall.” Andrew’s  voice echoed hollowly in the vast throne room. He approached Serena.  The guards at her sides forced her to kneel before him so that she had  to crane her neck to see his gleeful emerald eyes. He reached forward  his long, pale fingers and tilted her head back by the chin.

“So, men, how shall we punish this traitor?”

Chapter 32: The Last Guardian
Thus they were punished with blindness for the rest
of their lives due to their wickedness and malice.
from Cinderella

Serena shuddered at the feel of Andrew’s fingers beneath her chin. His  words echoed in the near-silent ballroom as the crowd of soldiers  peered at her with hungry eyes. How shall we punish this traitor? She  met the gazes of Malachite, Nephlite, and Zoicite, who all stared back  with shame and helplessness. Squirming against her captors only forced  the ropes around her wrists to cut into her skin, but every time Andrew  moved toward her she couldn’t help but flinch away.

“I say we have her beheaded,” suggested Hota, a blur of purple in the  corner of Serena’s eye.

“How does that sound to you, gentlemen?” Andrew asked. His gleeful  voice sickened Serena, but the leering grins of the armored men  sickened her more. Even setting her eyes on her friends—the princes  and Alex and the dwarfs—made her stomach churn. No hope came from that  direction. They all knew that Serena was being made an example. Her  fate would eventually be theirs.

Serena heard a sword drawn from its scabbard behind her. The harsh  sound sent a chill racing down her spine.

“Easy enough,” Seiya growled. His footsteps rumbled on the platform  and the audience came to life—cheering at Serena’s death sentence.

She squeezed her eyes shut. In her final moments she thought of  Endymion, but even the image of his handsome face brought her no  comfort. Earlier she thought that death would be okay, if only she  could be with him, but now she knew that was not true.

She wanted to live. Endymion would have wanted her to live.

A shadow passed over her and she could feel Seiya’s presence. Her  breath caught. Andrew’s clutching fingers released her chin and her  head fell limply to her chest. She tried to turn away from Seiya, tried  to curl herself into nonexistence, but the guards held her tight and  her bound arms were given no mercy.

The men were louder still, their cheers resounding in Serena’s head  until she could no longer hear her own heartbeat. The cool touch of  steel settled on her neck as Seiya found his target. A whimper escaped  her. Every muscle tensed and tears began to drop despite her attempts  to withhold them.

He raised the sword. She could picture him hovering over her, the sword  poised over his head, ready to fall. Then she pictured her mother and  wished that she could see her one more time, wished she would have told  her she loved her just once more.

Waiting for the sword to fall, Serena silently bid her farewells.

The room hushed.

The thundering in Serena’s ears fell away.

“What is that noise?” Seiya barked. Serena thought she heard him  shuffling away and found herself gasping for breath.

She opened her eyes, looked around. Her gaze was blurry at first, her  entire body was trembling, but slowly she was able to focus and see the  crowd turned toward the southern entrance of the ballroom.

Andrew approached the edge of the platform, straining his eyes toward  the hallway that led to the castle’s entrance.

And then Serena heard it. A horn—somewhere nearby and so loud that it  shook the castle walls. Many of the soldiers reached for their weapons.

“Is that a bugle?” Andrew asked.

Seiya threw a glare at the elf.

The horn sounded again, closer, louder.

“It sounds like a call to battle,” Hota suggested. “But who would  have the nerve…?”

The horn blasted once more and was followed by the slamming open of the  castle’s gigantic wood and iron doors. The soldiers tensed. The men  holding Serena loosened their grip.

The hallway pounded with the sound of hundreds of feet hurtling toward  the ballroom and a moment later the door burst open and a throng of  people charged ruthlessly into the waiting soldiers.

It was the townspeople. At their head stormed Mina, a short sword  flailing.

The guardians started screaming orders to the guards. Within seconds,  steel met iron and wood—swords and daggers clashing with shovels and  skillets.

Serena gawked, too weak to move as the bloodshed began. The townspeople  were as ruthless as the soldiers. It was inconceivable to see these  peaceful people wielding their weapons without mercy, striking at eyes  and chests and groins without hesitation. And yet Serena felt pride  welling up inside her to see them fighting to reclaim their kingdom  from the murderers who would otherwise enslave them.

Serena screamed as she was grabbed from behind, but soon felt her ropes  being slashed away. She turned to see Alex at her side, sword drawn and  a knife held between his teeth. She did not know if he’d escaped with  assistance or managed to set himself free—she would not doubt the  latter. She had never been so happy to see him.

“Take this,” he ordered, removing the knife from his teeth and  pushing the handle into her palm. And then he was gone. She watched him  disappear into the crowd, sword dispersing guards left and right.

Serena stumbled against a wall, trying to regain strength in her legs.  Her eyes scanned the chaos of the room, already strewn with bodies. She  caught sight of Lita wielding a butcher knife with Nephlite fighting at  her side. Amy and Zoicite were holding their own not far away.  Malachite had made his way to Mina and she somehow managed to match his  sword swing for swing.

Then she saw Andrew not far from the platform, his back to her. The  knife in her hand became heavy. Her palms were sweating. The elf held a  sword in his hand but he was not using it. Rather, he just stood there  shouting orders at the soldiers, furiously trying to organize the men  amidst the chaos.

Serena crept toward him, hardly aware of what she was doing. She  gripped the knife. Her heart pounded in her head, but the roar of the  battle was louder still. Her cheeks were damp and salty from her tears  but they, too, were forgotten.

She had lost her chance to kill Seiya and Hota before. She would not  lose this chance.

“Serena, look out!”

She turned toward the shrieking voice just in time to see a hairy,  snarling beast towering over her. Serena screamed and stumbled back  over the edge of the platform, landing on the marble floor with a pain  that shot up her spine. The wolf squinted his beady eyes, his huge  teeth dripping with saliva as he stood up on his powerful hind legs.  Serena found herself frozen, powerless before his looming form. He  crouched as if to jump and she screamed again, covering her face with  her arm, knife forgotten.

The wolf lunged—right over her head. Turning, Serena saw him tackle a  soldier and dig his fangs into the man’s throat. Grimacing, she pulled  away.

“Wow, Miss Serena, that was so lucky!” Chibi Chibi crouched down  before her, her bright red cloak dragging on the ground. “Good thing  me and William were here to save you!”

“William?”

The little girl smiled up at her, red curls bouncing, as if she did not  even see the violence going on around her. “Yep, William is my best  friend in the whole world. Don’t you remember him? He was pretending  to be my grandmother that one day when you showed up and we both  thought he was going to eat us, but it turned out to just be a game he  likes to play with kids sometimes. Grandmother was in on the whole  thing too, isn’t that just a hoot? Turns out he’s completely harmless  and gentle!”

Serena risked a glance at William and saw that there was little left of  the soldier he’d attacked. Just a gory mess.

Harmless and gentle, indeed.

And over his shoulder, not ten feet past, were all three guardians.  They were hovering at the side door. Andrew and Hota appeared to be  talking at once—plotting to take back control, no doubt—but Seiya  stood grimly watching the fight with one hand on the hilt of his sword.

“Thank William for me, will you?” Serena said, effectively cutting  Chibi Chibi off in the middle of another monologue. Climbing to her  feet, she headed toward the guardians, dodging any swords that came her  way.

Most of the soldiers were engaged in duels and Serena thought she might  be able to get through them without notice. She imagined herself  sneaking up on the guardians from within the throng of people. From the  midst of the fighting she could not tell who was winning, all she could  see was a blur of swords and axes. Picks and blades. Armor and blood.

A hand grasped her wrist. Lurching around, Serena found herself eye-to -eye with a snarling guard. His grip tightened. His lips curled into a  lecherous grin. Instinct prompted Serena to slash at him with the  knife. The blade pierced his leather jerkin and she felt it puncture  flesh. The man cried out in pain and sent his raised sword cutting  toward her.

Another sword choked off its path. The man released her wrist to face  the new enemy and Serena glanced at her savior—first noticing a white  blouse and leather vest, both caked with drying blood, and then a tri- tipped hat with a large peacock plume. And beneath the hat was thick,  wavy auburn hair.

“Molly?”

Molly took the opportunity to run the man through at the stomach before  turning to Serena, breathless and flushed. “Serena! I wondered if I  would see you here!”

Speechless, Serena took in Molly’s outfit again and the thin rapier  she held with pride. “You’ve… changed.”

“Well, after that whole escapade with Bluebeard I decided I simply  couldn’t be a helpless, naïve little girl anymore!” She emphasized  the statement with a thrust and parry, chopping a nearby soldier nearly  in half. “And so I convinced my brothers to train me in the fine art  of fencing. This is my first real fight. I think I’m doing pretty  well, don’t you?”

“Very well,” Serena stuttered, but Molly wasn’t listening.

“Oh, it looks like Yaten and Taiki need my help. Nice seeing you,  Serena!” Serena watched her charge into the crowd and meet up with her  two brothers, all mirror images of each other in their feathered hats  and billowy shirts.

But she could not stare for long. Turning back toward the exit door she  saw that the guardians had disappeared. Groaning, Serena slipped out of  the crowd, hoping to find a vantage point to look for the guardians.  She stumbled toward a long buffet table against the wall and pulled  herself on top.

And there was Hota, flittering back and forth near the main entrance.  Her purple wings caught the light as she dodged just above the swinging  blades. No one else seemed to notice her.

So busy was Serena watching the fairy she almost didn’t see a soldier  aiming his bow and arrow toward her until it was too late. She glanced  his way just as he let the arrow fly. Serena gasped and ducked. The  arrow whizzed by her shoulder and struck a tapestry on the wall. Even  as the man was reloading his bow, Serena scrambled off the buffet  table. Before he could aim another toward her, Serena lifted the white  linen tablecloth and scurried underneath—coming face to face with  frightened red eyes.

The two girls blinked curiously at each other in the shadows of the  table, Serena trying to place where she had seen the unusual hairstyle  of pointed buns on each side of the girl’s head—so similar to Serena ’s own trademark style.

“I know you from somewhere,” the girl said first, and her voice  struck the cord of recognition.

“Rini?”

“Yes… who are…?”

“I’m Serena. I… we met… you were on all those mattresses!”

Rini gasped. “Oh, Lady Serena! Yes, of course. Sorry, I didn’t get a  good look at you that night.”

“It’s all right. What are you doing here?”

“Fighting, like everybody else,” she said. “But I got hit pretty bad  and thought I would come under here to be out of the way.” She held  out an arm, allowing Serena to see a long gash from shoulder to elbow.  “I was just bandaging it up.”

“Let me help you,” Serena said, grabbing Rini’s makeshift bandage—a  scrap from her ruined blouse—and wrapping it around the wound.

“It worked, by the way.”

“What worked?”

“Complaining about the pea. Look!” She held out her other hand and  flashed a large diamond ring. “Elios’s parents agreed to our match  and we were just married a few days ago. I’ve never been so happy! Do  you want to see him?” She pulled up the tablecloth so that they could  watch the commotion from their hiding spot, and pointed her finger at a  man at the edge of the crowd. “That’s my Elios there. Isn’t he  handsome?”

The boy was handsome—slender and tall with whitish-blonde hair and  lightly tanned skin. He also seemed to be a skilled fighter, Serena  noted, watching him take down two soldiers at once. And just past him  was Seiya heading toward an exit.

“That’s great, Rini. Good seeing you. Sorry, but there’s something I  have to do!”

Serena hobbled from beneath the table, skirting the crowd as best she  could. Progress was slow as she tried to keep one eye on Seiya and one  on any stray weapons aimed her way. For the most part, everyone seemed  so preoccupied with the battle that they hardly took notice of her— until she crossed the giant main doorway and was grabbed from behind  and whipped around.

“Serena! Have you seen Alex?” Briar Rose’s eyes were wild, her face  even paler than normal. She clutched Serena’s shoulders with a vice- like grip.

“Briar Rose! I thought you were going to kill me!”

“Why would I do that?” the princess asked, honestly curious, then  prodded again, “Alex—have you seen him?”

Catching her breath, Serena shook her head. “Not for awhile. I’m sure  he’s in there somewhere.” She gestured toward the mass of people and  weapons.

“That’s what I was afraid of.”

“Did you come here to fight, too?”

“Goodness, no! I just wanted to be sure Alex was all right.”

“He wouldn’t want you here, so close to danger.”

“Where else could I go? The whole town is deserted, except for a  couple of old women and a bunch of kids.”

“Serena!” The two ladies turned to see Jacob Grimm rushing toward  them through the hallway. He stopped before them, panting.

“Jacob! What are you doing here?”

“Looking for you. Are you all right?”

“There he is!”

Serena turned to Briar Rose who was joyfully pointing to Alex amidst  the crowd. Alex was doing quite well, holding his own against Beryl’s  soldiers like the trained guard that he was.

“Briar Rose, take this,” Serena said, forcing her knife into the  princess’s hand much as it had been forced into her own. “You don’t  have to fight, but it’s ridiculous to be standing here unarmed.”

“But I wouldn’t know what to do with it.”

“You’ll figure it out.” Grabbing Jacob by the arm, Serena led the  storyteller back into the huge corridor. The thorny briars that had  encased the walls and floor had been trampled to pieces by the mob of  townspeople, making it easier to navigate the hallway. “Jacob, I’ve  been trying to get close to the guardians, but with no luck. I’m sure  they’re plotting something. Even if we could defeat these soldiers, I ’m sure the guardians would just go back to Cashlin and return with an  even larger group—maybe even an army. They have no intentions of  losing their rule over this kingdom.”

“I know, Serena. That’s why I was looking for you. I have an idea… I  don’t know if it will succeed, or even if it’s possible, but it may  be our only chance.”

“What is it?”

Jacob glanced back toward the battle, unable to hide his nervousness.  “Like I said, I don’t know if it’s even possible. It’s been a long  time since…”

“Any idea is better than nothing.”

Jacob hesitated only a moment. “I was thinking, earlier, about the  guardians, and I felt awfully responsible as my brother and I created  them in the first place and it’s led to all this disaster. Even though  we’d meant for them to be a blessing, maybe if we hadn’t given them  this power in the first place…”

“Jacob, get to the point.”

The man paused. Serena noticed how weary and old he looked. Something  in his expression was resigned. “Serena… what if I… made you a  guardian?”

Serena was sure she’d heard him wrong. “A guardian?”

He nodded, slowly, uncertainly.

“You can do that?”

Jacob rubbed his hands over his arms. “Well… I’m not sure. I’m not  as young as I was back when we gave the guardians their powers. I’m  not as strong anymore. But… I might… I could try.”

“What does that mean, exactly? To become a guardian? What would  happen?”

“Well… it’s a sort of transferring of power, difficult to explain.  Of course I’m not so powerful anymore which is why I don’t know how  successful it would be. But… well, first, we would assign you a  domain, something to be guardian over.”

“What would that be?” Between drama, romance, and tragedy, Serena  thought that all the important elements of a story were already  covered.

Jacob wrung his hands, but a little smile crept up into his eyes.  Serena knew that he’d been thinking about that very question and was  delighted with his decision. “Happy endings, Serena,” he said. “I  would make you the Guardian of Happy Endings.”

Serena wasn’t sure why that thought filled her with sudden hope—just  because one was meant to protect happy endings didn’t mean they’d be  able to. But she liked the sound of the title. After all, wasn’t that  what she’d been doing there all along? Trying to make sure everyone  got their happy endings?

“There’s just one thing about this plan, Serena,” Jacob said, his  flitting smile disappearing. “One thing you should not take lightly.”

“What’s that?”

“The rule of being a guardian of the stories is that you may not have  a story of your own.”

Serena only needed to ponder that for a moment, before she lowered her  eyes and shrugged. “That doesn’t matter. I’ve already lost my story. ”

Jacob nodded. He knew the truth of her words. “So then, you’ll do it? ”

“Yes. If it stands a chance of fixing all this, then I have to try.  Just tell me what to do.”

Pursing his lips, Jacob drew her closer to the wall. “All right.”

His brow creased. Hesitantly, he raised his frail hands and placed his  palms on Serena’s temples. She tensed at his touch and was about to  ask if it was going to hurt when she felt a subtle tingling inside her  head. She flinched against the invasion. Her eyes were glued to Jacob,  but his were closed in concentration. His lips were parted and as the  tingling increased his breath became heavier until he was panting from  exertion. Slowly, the strange sensation in Serena’s head traveled down  her spine and out through her limbs, heating up the tips of her fingers  and toes. It wasn’t pleasant or painful, just awkward—like her whole  body was going numb with pins and needles.

Jacob removed his hands without warning. He slumped against the wall  with a groan, whatever exhaustion he felt overwhelmed the threat of the  thorns that covered the stone. The tingling sensation disappeared with  his touch and Serena reached forward to steady him.

“What happened?” she asked, noting beads of sweat on his brow.  “Jacob, I—I don’t feel any different. Did it work?”

He opened his eyes with effort, his breath still short. He flicked his  gaze back toward the throne room. “Tell me what you see.”

Hesitant to leave his side, Serena slowly pulled away. Turning, she  took a few steps toward the throne room, and then froze, her heart  leaping into her throat.

The throne room was filled with thick, inky clouds. Serena gaped at the  scene, trying to make sense of the smoke that hovered just over the  crowd. Though the strange wisps drifting in the air were all a grayish  tone, some were pale—almost silver—while others were truer to an  ominous black. The black clouds shook her to the core and, as she  watched, she began to see a trend. The truly dark clouds hung over the  heads of people who were sorely injured and wrapped up their body just  before they collapsed to the ground. The black smoke signaled death.

Serena glanced at Jacob. He was watching her with keen interest.

“You see their auras, don’t you?”

Serena slowly nodded. “Everything is gray. Some endings are darker  than others, but everyone…”

Jacob nodded. “I know. I see them too. There was a time when you only  saw white auras—bright, cheerful things glistening like crowns over  every citizen. But happy endings are rare here, today.”

“We’re losing the battle, Jacob. They’re killing us.”

“Then you must act fast.”

“But what do I do? I can see their fates now but I still don’t know  how to change them!” she wailed, wondering if this new talent was more  a curse than a blessing.

Jacob looked on her with pity. “You are now the Guardian of Happy  Endings, Lady Serena. You are the only one with the ability to stop  this.”

“But how? I don’t feel any different than before! I don’t feel any  stronger!”

“You will,” he said, tired but confident. “When the balance between  happy ending and tragic ending begins to tip, you will know what to do. ”

“You don’t think the balance has tipped yet?” she growled, but Jacob  seemed immune to her growing anger.

With a wave of his hand, he muttered, “Go. You must go now. You’re  wasting time.”

Just as Serena was about to refute him, her anger sizzled away when she  saw a wisp of black smoke, almost unperceivable, curl around Jacob’s  head. She gasped. “Jacob! You’re…”

“I know,” he murmured. His face had gone drastically pale and his  eyes were bloodshot. “I gave you almost all the power I had, Lady  Serena. I hope the power of one old, tired storyteller is enough to fix  everything. Please, try to save them. My stories…”

Serena found the resolve in the pit of her stomach. “I will, and I’ll  do it in time to save you too,” she said, wishing she felt as  confident as she sounded.

Stone-faced, Serena walked back to the throne room. Briar Rose had  disappeared. The bloodshed continued. She could not spot any of her  friends and was glad of it—she had no desire to see their tragic fates  hanging over their heads. The sight of all the smoky clouds made Serena ’s insides recoil. Her fingers twitched at her sides. Surely their  must be something she could do. She was a guardian now. She had  responsibility for these people. For these stories.

Still, no solution presented itself. Still Serena felt weak and  helpless at the edges of the crowd, her chest constricting each time a  sword pierced flesh and another body fell.

But she felt a sudden change. Not in herself, but in the world around  her. A heavy presence filled the room—sinister and furious. Her eyes  darted to the thrones and there, on the platform, stood Andrew. His  white cloak, his blonde hair, but no longer his carefree smile. He  glared into the crowd, his face flushed with hatred.

The guardian raised his arms and the dark presence in the room  thickened. Serena felt she was breathing water for a moment, but she  shook her head, forcing herself to focus. Her gaze transferred to the  side door on her left and there was Hota, a twinkling streak in the  doorway. She hovered, perfectly still except for her fluttering wings,  and raised her arms out to the sides just as Andrew had done.

Serena glanced right and saw Seiya in the opposite doorway, glowering.  His arms raised as well and a weight pressed against Serena’s chest,  driving air from her lungs. She watched in a panic as the spell hit the  crowd—allies and enemies alike fell to the ground, gasping and  writhing. The cloud of smoke fell with them, blackening and thickening  until Serena could hardly see through it.

And she knew their plan. Sacrifice everyone. Even their own minions  would die. But they would regain control. Kill them all. Start over  again.

Serena closed her eyes. Her fists clenched. She gathered every ounce of  strength she could, balling it up in the pit of her stomach, and then  released it with a terrible cry.

The spell broke around her. She felt released. Air streamed into her  lungs.

Her scream echoed through the ballroom that had grown eerily quiet in  the struggle. The guardians’ concentration broke. The spell vanished,  leaving a mess of bodies gasping and choking on the bloody marble  floor.

The four guardians were the only ones left standing.

Serena took advantage of their shock to regain control of her body,  forcing her limbs to stop trembling. She locked eyes with each guardian  in turn and it only took a moment to realize what had stunned them so.  Not the fact she was still alive or had broken their spell.

They gawked at her because she did not have an aura.

She could see it clearly on them—no cloud hovering around them  signifying their fate—and she was sure they were seeing it now missing  for her as well.

They knew that there was a fourth guardian.

And Serena felt suddenly very different. The power that had forced  itself up from her core did not dissipate when she pushed the spell  away. She felt it still, hot and coursing through her veins. She could  not remember the feeling of weakness just a moment ago. The strength  made her feel unconquerable, invincible.

Thinking that, knowing that, suddenly made the three guardians’  motives much clearer. How long could any person live with a power like  this before it started to corrupt them?

And she understood what it meant to be a guardian.

“Well,” Andrew spoke into the thick silence, “this is unexpected.”

“How did that old man—?” Hota stammered.

Seiya said nothing. He stared at Serena with his usual impassive gaze.  The momentary shock was gone and he would not let on whether he was  surprised or threatened or even interested.

Serena did not care. She looked at each of her enemies—and now  brethren—with pity swelling inside of her. And immense sadness for all  they had caused. A tendril of a thought crept into her mind: what if  Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm had made her a guardian at birth to offset  Beryl’s curse, rather than send her to live with her mother in their  world? Would she have saved Andrew, Hota, and Seiya from the destiny  they had created for themselves? Or would she have joined them?

“I hope you understand the sacrifice you’ve made, Lady Serena,” said  Andrew with the same pity in his voice that Serena felt.

“I did not make the sacrifice,” she responded. “You made the  sacrifice for me when you killed Endymion and stole my claim to the  throne.” Her voice rang clear in the ballroom and she realized that  all surviving eyes were on the four of them. Soldiers and townspeople  alike watched and waited. Serena did not take a heartbeat to search out  a familiar face. She knew now that no one in that room was her friend,  for guardians did not have friends. But they were her charges and she  would protect them, all of them, if she could.

“Claim to the throne?” Andrew asked. “What claim? Even if Endymion  had lived he would not have ruled—”

“Obelia,” she interrupted. “Endymion and I would have ruled Obelia  together.” The guardians threw curious glances at each other. “Haven ’t you realized? I am Princess Briar Rose of Obelia… I was Princess  Briar Rose. It was I whom Beryl cursed as an infant. It was I who was  betrothed to Prince Endymion.”

“Impossible,” Andrew breathed, even as realization crept into his  eyes.

“But no more,” Serena said, and she felt nothing at the loss of what  would have been her fate. Nothing at the loss of love. Nothing at the  loss of power. Nothing at the loss of a home. She was a guardian now,  and guardians did not get happy endings. “I am no longer a princess. I  am no longer the Chosen One. Now—I am one of you.”

“Yes, we see that. Tell me—what, exactly, has Lord Grimm made you  guardian of?”

Serena inhaled a long, slow breath, reveling in the pulsating strength  beneath her skin, and looked out over the low black fog in the room.  All the tragic endings of all the tragic people.

“He’s made me guardian of the most important thing of all.” She  raised her hands so that her palms stretched toward the dark auras and  sent out a thin stream of the gift she’d been given. It reached out  for each tragic ending and patiently released the people from the grip  of death, one by one. The blackness lifted, the fog slowly shifting  from ebony to a pale silver. She disregarded no one, even the armored  men from Cashlin, and with each sigh of relief heard from the crowd,  Serena felt her strength surge. The three guardians did not try to stop  her—she knew they were watching to see how powerful she was, what  gifts she had been given.

Drawn from distant memory, Serena recalled Seiya’s words: “We  guardians have a strange effect on the world around us. Our trades  follow us everywhere we go and impact everything we do and every person  we meet.”

“You have failed,” Serena said when every tragic fate had been  averted.

“This fight is not over.”

“I do not mean this fight. You have all failed in your purpose.”

Andrew hinted at a smile. “I see your point, Lady Serena. And perhaps  I have failed in my purpose—but I think Seiya and Hota have done quite  well. Tragedy and drama abound here, don’t you agree?”

“But it isn’t about tragedy and drama and romance,” Serena said, her  pity for the guardians increasing as she looked at their smug faces. “ These are only silly titles, and once upon a time you must have known  that. Your responsibility was not to these vague notions. After all,  who is to say what constitutes as tragic? Or dramatic? Or even  romantic?” She scanned the eyes watching her, all the stunned faces,  before slowly returning her gaze to Andrew who seemed intrigued by her  words. “Jacob made me the last guardian. He gave me the power to have  the final say in all the stories. I am the Guardian of Happy Endings.  But…” She shrugged, feeling humble despite the power that held her in  its grip. “It is not up to me to determine what constitutes a happy  ending. For some that is marrying the man of their dreams. For some  that is fighting for the chance to live their own life. For some that  is eternal ignorance of the evils apparent in the world.”

“Then what’s the point of having a Guardian of Happy Endings at all? ” Hota growled.

“The point,” answered Serena, “is the same as having any guardian.  We do not protect these ambiguous elements of the stories. We protect  the stories themselves. We protect their very existence. We allow them  to seek their own fate and obtain their own ending and we hope that  with all of our hard work, each story will meet the expectations of  drama, tragedy, romance, and a happy ending. That is what we are here  for. And that is why you have failed.”

“A touching story,” muttered Seiya. “Nevertheless, you are going to  die, and we are going to rule the three kingdoms.”

Serena shook her head. “Impossible. You cannot defeat me.”

“You are awfully sure of yourself. But we have been doing this job a  lot longer than you have.”

“That doesn’t matter. Because you have already failed.”

Hota scoffed. “I’m bored with this.”

“As am I,” agreed Andrew. He raised his hands in the gesture of death  they had been in before. Hota and Seiya followed suit. The heavy  presence that had nearly drained the life from all the innocent people  in the room began to press down on Serena again.

“You took us by surprise last time, Lady Serena. But you won’t break  the spell again.”

But instead of surrounding Serena with suffocating death, the spell  reached her and sizzled in the air, before fading quietly away.

The guardians gaped.

“This is why you cannot defeat me,” said Serena. “Your powers were  once strong because they had been given a purpose—a very important  purpose. But you have abused them. You have neglected the  responsibility you were given. And so shall your powers neglect you.”

“This is ridiculous,” Andrew snorted. “Our powers are as strong as  the day we became guardians. You are trying to manipulate us.”

“No, Andrew. Your powers have been fading ever since you joined with  Queen
Beryl—you’ve just been too arrogant to notice the signs. You told me  of it yourself, when you mentioned how you could no longer see the aura  of romantic destiny that once encompassed Prince Endymion. Surely if  you still had the given powers of the Guardian of Romance you would not  have been blinded to such things…. And you would have noticed the  destined bond between Endymion and myself.”

The elf flushed. “I could not see his aura because his story had  already been ruined!” he cried. “Maybe your bond was broken when you  were taken out of this world!”

“Our bond was never broken!” Serena cried, hasty emotion flooding her  body, destroying the calm that her powers had given her. “And if the  stories had already been ruined then that is your doing. You were meant  to protect these people’s destinies. But now you bring us only tragedy  and death. You will be defeated because you have become the villains.  And the villain of a story is always defeated. Always. You must  understand that better than anyone. If the villain is not defeated,  then the story would never end.”

“Then this story will never end.”

“No. This story is over.”

“This conversation is over,” Seiya bellowed. “Destroying the stories  was a choice we knew we were making, and we deserved to make. No longer  will we be slaves to your… your righteous happy endings. We have  created a new story in this land, one that we will rule over, and no  one is going to stop that!”

“But your powers are weak and mine—”

“Then we will rule by force, not magic!” Seiya reached for his sword,  drawing it clear of its scabbard. Serena could not feel threatened; too  much of her own strength still claimed her body. “You want us to live  up to our purposes, oh powerful Guardian of Happy Endings?” he cried,  marching into the midst of fallen civilians. Those with any strength  scurried out of his wake but he paid them no heed, his storm-gray eyes  focused only on Serena.

Serena was already pulling the magic of fate up from her womb, letting  it simmer and seethe in her core, but Seiya did not come for her.  Instead, he turned to the first victim he saw—Mina.

Seiya grabbed her by her blonde hair, matted with dirt and blood, and  pulled her to her knees. The princess shrieked and clawed at him, her  weapon long since lost. She was little more than a rag doll in his  grip. Serena’s hold on the magic inside her loosened with a startled  cry. Instantly the victim’s fated aura turned from a silver-lined  cloud to charcoal black, thickening and holding the girl as securely in  its grip as Seiya.

“My purpose is to bring tragedy,” Seiya growled, pulling back his  sword and aiming the blade’s tip at Mina’s chest. “So tragedy I will  bring.”

With that promise, Seiya thrust his sword at Mina’s heart.

Chapter 33: Endings
It was not long before she opened her eyes, sat up, and was alive  again.
from Snow White

Serena’s heart stopped as she watched Seiya’s sword plummet toward  Mina’s heart. With a cry, she thrust her palms toward the guardian.  The magic ignited her nerves and coursed out of her fingertips. Hurtled  toward the princess. Collided with the black cloud of fate surrounding  her. The sword froze, poised with the blade barely puncturing Mina’s  skin.

There it hung. Mina’s fate. The tragic ending grappling with Serena’s  desperation. Serena fell to her knees, straining to keep the sword at  bay through sheer willpower, but Seiya strained equally hard. She felt,  rather than saw, Mina’s aura begin to shift. It trembled briefly under  the two opposing pressures.

Malachite came hurtling from the ranks of the stunned crowd with  renewed vigor, his sword focused only on slaying the guardian before  him.

Hota screamed and lashed out with what magic fate had not taken from  her. Malachite’s sword ceased to be metal, the blade turning into a  writhing, seething snake in his grip. The prince dropped the serpent  with a cry and as the creature turned toward him with venomous fangs  dripping, Serena saw his fate sealed in a ring of black smoke above his  head.

With a grunt, Serena called up the last bits of strength within her,  stretching her power to Malachite’s aura, desperately trying to hold  onto Mina’s fate as well.

The snake snapped forward, its iron jaws locking onto Malachite’s boot —but the leather held. It could not puncture through to skin.

By the time the snake had dislodged itself, Alex had regained his wits,  and a weapon, and cut the creature in half. It evaporated—leaving  Malachite’s broken sword where it had died.

Andrew and Hota were quick to join the fray. Andrew claimed the sword  of a fallen soldier, Hota attempted every small spell she could think  of that her powers would permit—momentarily blinding Malachite,  setting Alex’s cloak ablaze.

Serena struggled to avert each death, but the fates of her friends were  quickly growing blacker. Though they fought with everything left in  them, they were still overpowered. The smoky auras surrounding them  grew darker until Serena could feel death creeping in all around her.

When her new strength stretched too thin, Serena felt her hold on Mina ’s fate snap. Seiya stumbled back away from the princess, released  from Serena’s gift.

The guardian did not waste a moment to renew his attack. He raised his  sword again and lunged.

Serena screamed. Mina’s fate blackened before her eyes. She saw death —and failure.

She lost control.

Her links to all her companion’s fates shattered and Serena fell  forward with a wail. Panting and crying, she raised her eyes, expecting  to see Seiya’s sword make the fatal thrust. Expecting to watch  helplessly as the guardians won the battle, once and for all.

Seiya’s sword pierced Mina’s heart. The point drove through her  chest, erupted from between here shoulder blades.

The princess did not have time to make a sound, just stared at the  guardian with death in her eyes before sliding down the blade and lying  prone on the floor.

Seiya forgot her instantly, ready to move on to his next victim. But  his sword would not release the princess’s heart. Frowning, he pulled  on the hilt but it did not budge.

And then the black cloud surrounding Mina started to tremble and throb —and grow. It darkened until it was a splotch of ink hanging on the  air. And it deserted Mina’s body—crawling up the blade of the sword  and hilt, over and around Seiya’s hand and arm. The guardian struggled  to pull away but the aura held him captive. It reached his shoulder,  his neck. It thrived on his tragic energy. Oozing and languid, the  cloud rolled up the guardian’s chin. Seiya screamed and the aura  slipped into his mouth.

The fighting around him stopped. The spectators watched as Seiya  released the sword and stumbled backward, collapsing to the ground.  Those close to the guardian scurried away on injured limbs. In their  eyes, the guardian was being attacked by an invisible phantom—only the  guardians could see a person’s fate.

Seiya choked on the evil invading his lungs. Gagging, he reached for  his throat, tried to pull the invader away, but his hands met only  smoke. His eyes watered as he struggled for breath—writhed and clawed  at the untouchable enemy.

“Seiya!” Hota screamed. She careened toward the fallen guardian, her  body crackling with energy, and tried to pull the black smoke away. But  it evaded her in teasing wisps.

Andrew rushed for the fairy. “Hota, no! You can’t save him!” He fell  to his knees and snatched the fairy from the haze.

The guardians watched as Seiya gurgled his last attempt at breath and  shuddered before lying still and silent on the marble floor. His  charcoal eyes stared at nothing. The tear tattoo on his cheek never  fell.

Hota wailed. Her stomach clenched to see the inky cloud squirm up  slowly from Seiya’s open mouth and seep down along his body, its job  finished. The fairy turned livid eyes to Serena, the only person who  could control such fates.

It was not Serena that made her breath snag.

Andrew noticed the threat at the same time—all of the destined fates  of the soldiers and the townspeople hung thick in the air between them  and the Guardian of Happy Endings. It was like a living wall, opaque  and ominous, slowly creeping toward them on silent feet. Andrew started  to back away, but stopped at Hota’s startled gasp.

Turning, he saw that the auras surrounded them. The mass pulsed and  squirmed, patiently closing in.

Andrew stood his ground. When the aura crept close enough, he lashed  out with his sword and a battle cry.

The sword swept through the enemy like smoke, but then stuck.

Startled, Andrew pulled on the hilt, trying to loosen it from the aura ’s hold. The blade did not budge. And then the inky wisps were  slithering up over the hilt, tying languidly around Andrew’s fingers.

Hota hovered, terrified, over Andrew as the aura followed the same path  it had taken on Seiya—crawling up his elbow, his shoulder, his chin.  Andrew clenched his teeth and turned his head away from his captor,  struggling to avoid the death tugging at his body. His attempts were  futile. The creature slipped into his nostrils and when the elf  screamed, it flooded his mouth.

Hota covered her mouth, horrified and sickened. She turned toward the  ceiling and soared upward to escape the fate of her two companions.

But the wall of destiny rose higher. Hota found herself with nowhere to  go.

The auras encompassed her, wrapping the fairy’s small body and wings  up in living smoke and pulling her back to the ground. She landed  between Andrew and Seiya as the elf was drawing his last shuddering  breath. The fairy thrashed and cried as the vapor seeped inside her.

Tragic endings work quick. Hota’s struggling lasted only a moment  until death claimed her and she lay silent and unmoving on the marble  floor.

Serena found herself still on hands and knees, gaping at the three  villains of Aysel. Her eyes stung from tears. She remained in her  stupor as the inky aura slowly crawled up and out of the guardians’  mouths, its job completed, and slithered back into the crowd. The crowd  could not see it and were not afraid as the black aura changed back to  a silver-lined fog and hung like mist above their heads.

Serena pushed herself back to kneeling. Her mouth had gone dry. Never  had she felt so exhausted. The strain of the past few hours suddenly  caught up with her and she slumped over, her chin falling to her chest.

She could not be proud of her victory. She felt only exhaustion— unearthly exhaustion.

A firm hand on her shoulder prompted her to open her eyes. They met  with the marble floor, bloody footprints, and broken, thorny vines.

“Lady Serena, thank you.”

Raising her head, she met Jacob Grimm’s grateful smile and kind eyes.  Her tears began to fall unwelcome, but the old man just patted her on  the shoulder as if he did not see them, and turned to look over the  people of Aysel and the soldiers of Cashlin. All his people—all of  them.

Choking on a sob, Serena followed his gaze. All of the fighters were  looking around them as if in a daze. There was no doubt that the battle  was over, and the war was won. The soldiers had the courtesy to wear  faces of shame and Serena wondered how much Beryl’s silver tongue had  had them brainwashed.

People were tending their wounds and seeking out their companions who  had not fared so well. A slow, mournful cry began to hum throughout the  crowd as people found their fallen lovers, family, friends.

Serena spotted Malachite, cradling Mina’s body and sobbing into her  hair. The aura of fate that hung over him was gray—not happily ever  after, but not tragic, either.

Mina no longer had any destiny above her at all.

“Jacob,” Serena whispered, “I don’t feel like we won.”

Jacob turned back to her with lips pursed in sympathy. “That’s  because you aren’t done yet.” He held out his hand and Serena took it  with a sinking feeling. Obligation pressed down on her, but all she  could think of was laying her head on that cold marble floor and  sleeping for a hundred years. Every muscle in her body creaked as she  clambered to her feet, but she sucked in her breath and stood up  anyway, tottering for a moment. The throne room spun and the floor  jilted beneath her feet, but it only lasted a moment and Jacob never  left her side.

Her wits gathered, Serena surveyed the damage that Beryl and the  guardians had wrought. The castle was thrashed, ravaged inside and out  by the invasive briars. This throne room had taken the brunt of it. The  floor was sticky with blood. Tables and chairs were splintered.  Curtains hung in shreds.

And then there were all the dead people, all those who had not escaped  the tragic ending, strewn over the marble with crying loved ones  hovering over them. Serena estimated that a quarter of the soldiers had  fallen, and over half of the townspeople.

And of course Mina, Jadeite, Raye… and Endymion.

“Jacob,” she said, grasping the old man’s elbow, “can guardians  bring people back to life?”

He hesitated, and Serena noted that he looked almost as exhausted as  she felt. “Serena, you are the Guardian of Happy Endings,” he  answered. “Only you know what you can and cannot do.”

He began leading her into the room, but Serena stopped him, tugging on  his arm.

“Jacob—before we… I wanted to ask you, before…”

He waited, tilting his head at her.

“When did you know that I was Briar Rose? When we met… on Thornrose  Lane?”

Jacob glanced away. “I knew that you were the true princess, yes. I  have watched you from afar, since the day we brought you to that world. ”

Serena inhaled a deep breath, thinking back to their first meeting and  trying to remember how it had felt to be ignorant of this world and her  role in it. To not know what true love felt like. To not feel magic in  her veins. To only read the stories and imagine being a part of them.

“Lady Serena,” Jacob continued, “I am truly sorry to have brought  you back to this. I am sorry to have caused you so much pain. A child  so young should not know the heartbreak you know, and should not have  to experience the responsibility that has been put on you. It’s just  that you seemed like such a blessing that day when you showed up on my  doorstep. My brother and I knew that horrible things were happening and  that we were not strong enough to stop it. I thought your mother would  kill me when she found out I’d let you return to the world we had  tried to save you from sixteen years ago, but she seemed to understand  when I told her. She’d seen how devoted you were to your book of fairy  tales. She knew as well as I that you were the best chance we had.”

“But why me?”

He closed his fingers gently over hers. “Because you loved these  stories as much as we did.”

Serena could not respond. She knew it was true.

“Shall we, then?” Jacob said, pulling her toward the crowd again.

“Yes,” she answered, taking a long breath and facing the people  before her. “And I think I know what I can do.”

The crowd parted before them as Jacob led her into the center, to where  Malachite cried over Mina’s body. Luna and Artemis had joined them,  tears running down their cheeks. Serena thought she saw Nephlite, Lita,  Zoicite, and Amy making their way toward them but she could only focus  on Mina’s ashen face. The sword had been removed from her chest and a  swath of fabric draped across her to hide the wound, but the crimson  pool on the tile was impossible to conceal.

Malachite did not notice Jacob and Serena approach. His knuckles were  white from clutching the material of his wife’s tunic and his body  shook with each wracking sob. His silver hair cascaded over Mina,  blanketing her own spun-gold locks, and his gray-fated aura crowned  them both.

Which was exactly what Serena needed.

She did not bother to disturb the prince. She lowered her aching  muscles into a kneel and watched as the small silver cloud wavered at  her presence. When she had first seen the auras hanging over people’s  heads she had thought they were merely a fortune telling device, but  now she believed them to be much more, perhaps even living beings with  their own thoughts and desires. Certainly they had come to life to  dispose of the evil guardians, and Serena doubted they had gone back  into dormancy.

They were almost like fairy godmothers, in fact. Maybe that was what  the story had really meant.

But in that case, she mused, slowly reaching her fingers out to the  cloud trailing over Malachite’s head, I’m a little bit like a fairy  godmother, too.

Serena’s fingers touched the foggy veil and Malachite looked up at  her, suddenly aware of her presence. He flinched away in surprise— unable to see the aura of fate that
Serena was touching—but the little cloud did not depart with him. It  lingered at the tips of Serena’s fingers, shimmering.

The prince’s face was wet and flushed, his eyes red. Serena did not  look at him as she curled a tiny wisp of his fate around her finger and  began to speak.

“Prince Malachite, what would you do to save her?”

He gawked at her, his arms never loosening from his wife. “Serena…  can you…?”

“Perhaps,” she whispered. “But only with your help.”

“Anything,” he croaked. “I would do anything for her.”

Serena nodded and drew her fingers away, taking a tiny wisp of fate  along with her. It clung briefly to the larger cloud before letting go  and hovering in Serena’s palm.

“I am linking your fates together,” Serena said. “I am giving a part  of your future to her. If you are to live happily ever after, then so  shall she. But be warned: if either of you fall into tragedy, both of  you shall fall into tragedy. In this way you are forever bound.”

Malachite gawked, unable to comprehend as Serena held her open palm  close to Mina’s lips. In his eye her hand was empty, but he did not  question her.

Only Serena and Jacob Grimm could see the tiny, smoky tendril perch  curiously on Mina’s lips, before disappearing inside.

Serena withdrew her hand and waited.

Happy endings work quick.

Mina drew her first shock of breath at the same time that her new fate  slipped out of her lips and went to peacefully encircle her head.

The crowd gasped and Malachite had let out a joyful cry and embraced  her before she could even open her eyes.

“Malachite…” she whispered, weakly reaching her arms up to surround  him. “I had the most terrible dream.”

The prince sobbed into her neck. “It’s over now,” he murmured. “It ’s over now.”

With a relieved sigh, Serena sat back on her heels and smiled at the  couple, but her smile fell as she turned her gaze to the rest of the  room. She was feeling dizzy again. Her head throbbed and her eyes  stung, and every time her gaze fell on another body her heart clamped.  She felt suffocated, could hardly breathe, but she tried her best to  ignore it. Reaching for Jacob’s shoulder, she pulled herself  unsteadily to her feet.

As Jacob had said, her job was not yet done. There was still far too  much tragedy…

But as she moved to the nearest fallen victim, a teenage boy whose  parents were grasping his hands and looking at Serena with hopeful  eyes, Jacob stepped in front of her.

“Serena, you cannot go on like this. You need to rest,” he said,  placing his hands on her shoulders.

Shrugging him off, Serena shook her head. “There are still so many  people…. They need me….”

“But Serena…”

“I am the Guardian of Happy Endings,” she snapped. “I am going to  finish this, just as you created me to do.”

Jacob dared not argue again.

And so Serena did just what she was meant to do.

Slowly, methodically, she made her way around the room, to every person  with an inky black fate. To every corpse with no fate at all. Every  townsperson. Every soldier. And every time she felt she would collapse  from exhaustion, she would look up and see one more mother weeping, one  more husband cradling his wife, one more sister gripping her brother’s  hand—and she would continue. Most of the fallen heroes had loved ones  willing to share a fate with them, and Serena was even able to find  enough unmarried girls willing to bind fates with the soldiers of  Cashlin, until every last person in the room was saved.

In that way the evening and then the night passed, until finally Serena  stopped and looked around and was able to see all the silver linings.  All the happy endings, and was somehow able to smile whimsically to  herself.

She did not know who caught her then as she sunk to the ground. She was  too tired to care, and already asleep when they lay her head on the  marble floor.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

Serena woke up to the warmth of sun on her face. She instinctively  rolled away from it and buried her head into the thick, silky-soft  pillow. She groaned to feel the distant ache of her muscles.

She opened her eyes to a squint, peering out at white bed linens and a  familiar bedpost. The mist of sleep slinked away and she lifted herself  onto an elbow and looked around the sun-filled room.

It was her guest room, the same she had been staying in for so many  weeks, though it had been through some wear and tear. Someone had tried  to mend the curtains as nicely as possible, but there were still holes  where the thorns had punctured them. The wall decorations had all been  taken down and the ornately carved vanity was being held up by four  mismatched legs. The mirror frame above it was still empty.

But there was not a thorn in sight.

Serena glanced at the nightstand and was not disappointed when her eyes  met with a tray of fresh fruit and a loaf of bread. She ate it  greedily, feeling as if she hadn’t eaten in days, and savored each  bite like she may never see another morsel of food again.

Only when her appetite had been satiated did she throw off her blankets  and crawl out of bed.

She discovered that she had been changed out of her mourning dress and  into a cotton nightgown, and that her face and body had been cleaned of  the dirt smudges and dried blood. All of her wounds had been tediously  cleansed and bandaged and she was amazed to find that the gash Seiya  had left in her shoulder was already beginning to heal.

She found an array of dresses hanging in the wardrobe, freshly washed  and pressed. She chose a simple blue calico gown and a pair of leather  ankle boots. Her feet stung when she walked, still sore from trampling  unprotected across the briars.

Feeling far more refreshed than she could ever recall feeling, and  reveling in the sensation of her guardian’s power having returned to a  warm, comforting presence in the base of her stomach, Serena ventured  out into the castle’s corridor.

She was amazed to find the hallway bustling with activity. Dozens of  people were rushing up and down the hallway, carrying baskets and carts  full of food, cleaning supplies, and linens. Men were up on ladders  chopping away the vines that clung to the ceiling with axes while women  swept them off toward overflowing wheelbarrows. Artists were tediously  touching up paintings with damaged canvases and carpenters were busy  measuring windows that needed replacing.

Everyone seemed so cheerful as they went about their jobs, and every  single aura floating over their heads was crystalline white.

“You’re awake!”

Serena turned just in time for Amy to pull her into a hug.

“Amy,” she mumbled into the girl’s shoulder, returning the embrace.  “How long was I asleep?”

“Nearly three days. And you needed it—you looked half dead after the  battle. How do you feel?” she asked, pulling away to fix Serena with a  concerned frown.

“World’s better. Wonderful, actually. And everyone else? How is Mina? ”

“Everyone’s fine! Everyone you touched has been up and about like  nothing ever happened. And you should see all the Cashlin soldiers.  They’ve all been terribly regretful about what they did and are  helping us put the castle back the way it was.”

“I can tell. It feels like a new place already.”

“There are a lot of people helping us clean up the mess. Even the King  of Obelia came down and brought a whole army once he heard what was  happening down here. Of course, all was over and done with by the time  they got here, but it’s great having the helping hands.”

“It’ll be fixed up in no time.”

“That’s what we’re hoping. Oh! Except… there are a few things that … that we’ve all been waiting on you for.” Amy looked momentarily  distraught and grasped Serena’s hands. “We were hoping you could… if  you aren’t too tired…”

“What is it?”

“Well… it’s just that, Prince Jadeite is still dead,” she  whispered, her voice low as if any sad news would break the joyful  spell cast over the castle. “Lord Grimm tried to heal him, like you  did… and there were a dozen girls willing to bind with him, as he  called it, but he said that he just didn’t have the same strength you  have… the same power.”

“That doesn’t really matter. He wouldn’t have been able to bind them  anyway.”

Amy’s eyes widened in surprise. “What do you mean? Why couldn’t he  bind with them?”

“Because he has to bind with Raye.”

“Raye?”

“Yes, Raye. Couldn’t you tell that they were in love?”

Flabbergasted, Amy slowly shook her head. “I… couldn’t, no. When did  that happen?”

“From the moment they met, just like you and Zoicite. I’m sure  Jadeite’s body will only accept Raye’s destiny being linked with his. ”

“Well that presents another problem, then,” Amy said, nibbling her  fingernail. “We couldn’t do anything for Raye, either. In fact, you  won’t believe this, but Lord Grimm says she isn’t fully dead—that  she still has a ‘fate’ hanging over her. But he was unable to bring  it back from tragic… Does this make sense to you? I’m trying to quote  Lord Grimm as best as I remember, but I didn’t fully understand what  he was talking about…”

Serena nodded and quieted Amy with a gentle hand on her shoulder. “It  makes perfect sense. I’ll see what I can do for them.”

“We should tell the dwarfs that you’re awake. They’re itching to ask  your help in reviving Raye… and I know they’ll do anything to help if  they can.”

“I’m not sure yet how they’ll be able to help, but I guess we had  better go find them to let them know I’m on the case.”

“Oh! And one other thing too… I’m sorry to burden you with all this  just after you’ve awoken…”

“Don’t be. That’s why I’m here.”

“Well… it’s…” She hesitated, looking away as she searched for the  words. “It’s Endymion, Serena. We found him in one of the towers, but … but Lord Grimm wasn’t able to bring him back either. Luna and  Artemis are so upset about it and I know… that you…”

Serena looked down, her heart sinking in her heart, and slowly nodded.  “Endymion…” she breathed. “I’ll… I’ll see what I can do.”

Amy tried to force a supportive smile. “We’d better go find the  dwarfs, then, and let everyone know you’re awake. They’ll be so happy  to see you.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

Serena, Jacob, and the seven dwarfs had gone into the forest to  retrieve Raye and her glass coffin and bring them back to the castle at  Serena’s bidding. But as soon as Serena had laid eyes on the girl— still as beautiful as the moment she’d bitten that poisoned apple—a  very bad feeling had welled up in her throat. There was a dilemma with  Raye and Jadeite’s happy ending which Serena was quick to realize but  loathed to tell the dwarfs. On their way back, as the dwarfs meandered  slowly beneath the weight of the coffin, Serena pulled Jacob aside and  tried to form her doubt into words.

That is, she was certain that Jadeite would take Raye’s fate, but she  was not certain it was a fate he should take. After all, the aura above  Raye’s body was smoldering and black, nearly as tragic as a fate could  be, and Serena worried that sharing that fate with Jadeite would only  doom them both—if they could be any further doomed than they already  were.

She sighed after explaining this theory to Jacob, who listened with  frown lines wrinkling his forehead.

“I don’t know what will happen if we chain Jadeite to that tragic  ending Raye is faced with now,” she murmured. “And I can’t think of  any way to wake up Raye without first bringing Jadeite back to life. He  has to be the one to kiss her.”

“Kiss her?” Jacob interrupted.

“Yes, kiss her, and dislodge the apple from her throat.”

“Ah…” he muttered. “Is that how it happens? It’s been so long  since we wrote the stories, I must have forgotten that part.”

Serena frowned at the man from the corner of her eye. “How could you  forget? It was the best part of the story.”

Jacob shrugged. “I don’t know… but I don’t remember that part.  Nevertheless,” he smiled at her, “I’m sure you’ll come up with  something.”

Uncomforted, Serena scowled out at the looming trees and forest floor  speckled with sunlight. “Senile old man,” she muttered beneath her  breath.

A moment later, a yelp and crash echoed through the tranquil forest.  Serena and Jacob turned back to see the coffin lying in the middle of  the path surrounded by sparkling pieces of broken glass, and Vlonterp  rolling around on his back, grimacing and holding his ankle.

“What happened?” Serena asked.

“’e tripped,” muttered Kepple. “The clumsy lout.”

“Someone put a rock in my way!” Vlonterp bellowed.

A sudden coughing silenced them, and they all turned to see Raye jolt  up, one hand reaching for her throat. Choking.

“Snow Flake!” Vlonterp cried, just as a piece of glossy red apple  tumbled out of Raye’s lips.

“Ah—now that’s what I remember,” said Jacob, a huge smile on his  round, wrinkled face.

Serena gawked on as the dwarfs bombarded Raye with hugs and Vlonterp  with friendly pats on the back. “Of course,” she murmured, “Snow  White wakes up because someone drops her coffin, and that dislodges the  apple. Not a kiss… How did I forget that?”

Once Raye’s breathing had steadied, she surveyed the forest with  wonderment. “What happened? Where are we?”

“Beryl tried to kill you again. That apple you bit into was poisoned. ”

Raye frowned, then quickly shook her head. “No, no… Sir Andrew gave  me that apple. You know, the elf.”

“Andrew was working for Beryl. As were Hota and Seiya.”

Raye’s jaw fell. “You’re kidding! How…?”

“It’s a very long story,” said Serena, lending her arm to help Raye  to her feet. “I’ll try to explain on the way back to the castle. Now  that you’re awake, I need your help with something.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

Raye could hardly believe her eyes when she first saw the destruction  that had been wrought on the castle. Slow tears filled up her violet  gaze as Serena led her through the thorny briars that had not yet been  brushed away and all the doors that still hung crooked on their broken  hinges.

But she looked truly horrified when she laid eyes on Jadeite.

Nearly six days of death had left Jadeite’s skin ashen and translucent —a body slowly becoming a corpse. Raye approached him with reserve and  sat on the bed that had been made up for the prince to rest on prior to  his burial ceremony. She took his hand into hers, flinching at the  iciness of his fingers, and her tears began to fall.

Luna and Artemis watched from the corner of the room. The joy at having  their kingdom reclaimed and their townspeople saved tasted bittersweet  with their two youngest sons still lying dead. Luna glanced at Serena  and forced a hesitant smile.

Serena did not see the smile, too focused on Raye and Jadeite. She  walked to the other side of Jadeite’s bed, keenly watching the aura  over Raye’s head. Since she had awoken it had taken on a subtle shade  of gray, as the auras tended to do when neither tragedy nor happiness  seemed to be in store.

Which Serena did not fully understand. In her mind, the loss of love  was the most tragic ending possible. To be forced to go on living  without that person by your side seemed unbearable—but she choked down  the thought.

Maybe fate did not see Raye’s ending as tragic yet because there was  still the potential…

“What happened to him?” Raye murmured, her voice catching in her  throat.

“Murdered by Seiya,” Serena answered.

Raye stroked trembling fingers through Jadeite’s hair. “He was so  kind to me, from the moment we met. I can hardly believe we only knew  each other for a few short days. I felt…” She sobbed, slumping over  and burying her face in Jadeite’s chest. “This should not have  happened. This is all wrong.”

Her aura shivered above her, already creeping uncertainly down toward  Jadeite’s body. Serena had to fight off a proud grin—she knew Raye’s  aura would take to him.

“Let’s give them a moment, shall we?” she whispered, ushering the  king and queen out of the little room. Jacob, the dwarfs, the princes  and their wives were all waiting in the hallway, craning to see inside,  but Serena shut the door. The last thing she saw was Raye steeling a  kiss from the prince she’d intended to love—and her cloud of fate  growing brighter.

“He’s going to live,” said Serena, turning to Luna and Artemis.

Luna sucked in a breath, clenching her husband’s hand. “Are you sure? ” she breathed.

“I’m sure. Jadeite will accept being linked with Raye’s fate—and I  predict you’ll be welcoming another daughter-in-law soon.”

With a joyful cry, Luna flung her arms around Serena’s shoulder. “You ’re a miracle worker! I—I can’t believe it. Oh, thank you!”

Chuckling, Artemis coaxed his wife away from Serena. “My wife shares  gratitude for us both,” he said. “I thought that you were a blessing  to this kingdom the day you came here. I wonder how we ever got on  without you.”

Serena looked away. She did not feel at all successful. All of her  victories in this kingdom did not outweigh the one failure she could  not come to terms with.

“And that… just leaves…” she muttered, meeting Jacob’s gaze before  turning back to the king and queen.

“Yes! Of course, Endymion!” Luna was glowing, a smile brighter than  the moon she was named for lighting up her face.

Her palms sweating, Serena looked around at the group, everyone looking  so happy, so hopeful. She licked her lips and lowered her gaze to the  floor.

“I… I cannot save Endymion,” she said, her throat drying.

She did not look up, but she felt the joy in the hallway extinguish  with her words.

“But… why?” asked Artemis. “We’ll go find Princess Briar Rose.  Surely her… fate or aura or whatever it is you call it…”

Inhaling a long breath, Serena looked at Endymion’s brothers and  parents in turn, seeing the anguished expressions as they waited for  her to explain.

“I am Princess Briar Rose,” she said. “The princess that you know is  a stand-in, meant to protect me from Queen Beryl after she gave me the  curse. I am the princess that was betrothed to Endymion. And I…” She  fought back the tears, fought to keep her voice steady. “I am the one  who was in love with him. And I am the one he loved back.”

It took a moment for her words to sink in, but once they had, Queen  Luna shook her head in confusion. “But… but this is wonderful,  Serena. You can share your fate with him, then. I think that you and  Endymion…”

“I’m sorry, Your Majesty,” Serena interrupted. “But you see… I am  no longer the princess that was betrothed to Endymion. I am a guardian  now. And guardians… we don’t have stories. We don’t have happy  endings.” She could not fight the tears any longer as they made salty  paths down her cheeks. “If I had the power to bring Endymion back… it ’s the only thing I wish I had the power to do. But I know that  Endymion’s body will never accept being bound to anyone but me and I…  I have no destiny with which to bind him. I’m… I’m so very sorry.  Please know that I loved your son, more… more than…” Luna stepped  forward and wrapped Serena in another hug as she dissolved into tears.  “I loved him so much,” she sobbed. “And I never told him… and I  ruined everything.”

Luna soothed down Serena’s hair, cooing, “There, there, dear…”

“He asked me to run away with him,” Serena choked. “He asked me to  marry him…. And if I’d gone with him, maybe…”

“Oh, Serena, you can’t do this to yourself,” said Luna, pulling away  and cupping Serena’s cheeks in her hands. “Endymion would be so happy  and so proud to see all the good you have done for this kingdom, for  his brothers and his friends… I want to see you happy, and I would do  anything to see Endymion’s smile again, but Grimm knows you did the  best that you could. You managed to save us all, Serena.” Sighing, she  pulled Serena to her again. “I know it’s hard. I know it is, child.  But someday you will look back on this day and know how much good you  brought to us.”

Serena pursed her lips and said nothing, doubting that the painful  memories of this day would ever ease, even if she had all the time in  all the worlds.

“What’s all this? Why are you all crying? That is no way to welcome a  man back from the dead.”

Serena pulled herself from Luna’s embrace and spun around to see  Jadeite and Raye holding hands in the open doorway.

The prince looked much better than he had mere moments ago. His face  was flushed a healthy pink and his eyes vibrant.

“Jadeite!” Luna cried, flinging herself into the arms of her son.  “We were so worried! We didn’t… oh, my baby boy!”

Jadeite laughed, waiting for her babbling to die down. “Come, mother— you didn’t think a sword to the heart could keep me down for long, did  you?”

Raye rolled her eyes, a smirk on her lips as Jadeite embraced his  father and brothers and sisters-in-law.

“Raye tells me we’ve had quite the exciting few days here. I’m sorry  to have missed it all. I would have liked to show Queen Beryl a piece  of my sword.”

“It’s all over now, and I’m glad of it,” said Artemis. “Now that  you’re up and around again, I guess we’d better get a feast prepared.  You look like a skeleton.”

“Death will do that to a man.”

Raye looked radiant standing in the window’s mellow sunlight. And she  could not keep her eyes from Jadeite, a smile always on her lips, and  Jadeite could not keep his hands from her; he was constantly reaching  to lace their fingers together or rub a palm on her lower back.

Serena did not know for certain what had been said between them after  Jadeite had awoken from a stolen kiss, but she thought she had a pretty  good idea.

After all, the shared destiny that hung over them was as white as snow.

“Pardon me, Your Majesties.” A messenger cleared his throat, drawing  the attention of the group who had been so caught up in their joy—and  sadness—that no one had seen him approach. “King Kenneth of Obelia  requests the honor of your presence, Your Majesties. He wishes to  discuss matters of the state.”

Artemis groaned. “Politics at a time like this?”

“We’re going to be very busy monarchs for the next few weeks,  darling.”

“Yes, I guess we’d better get going. There is an awful lot to  discuss, isn’t there?”

“I’ll come with you,” interrupted Serena, eyes freshly stinging from  the tears.

“Oh, Serena, you’ve been through so much and I’m sure this will bore  you to death.”

Serena shook her head. “Anything you decide will affect me as well.  Plus… I… would like to meet the King of Obelia.”

“All right, then. We’d better be off. We don’t want to keep His  Majesty waiting,” said Artemis.

Serena strained her lips into an awkward smile and realized that her  stomach was fluttering with nerves.

It was the strangest feeling. The invincibility of power. The  inescapable sorrow. And now, the inescapable nerves that came with  meeting her father for the first time.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

“Good day, Kenneth!” bellowed Artemis, clapping arms with the King of  Obelia like old friends. “What can I do for you?”

“I only wished to discuss some small matters—I’m quite sorry to have  bothered you.” The king’s voice was loud and boisterous in the  otherwise quiet room.

Serena hung back behind Luna and Artemis. When they had first entered  the throne room—amazingly devoid of blood and thorns as she’d  expected it to be—she’d first noticed a row of guards near the back  wall, Alex’s blonde hair shining out amongst them, and Briar Rose  lingering at her father’s side.

But then Serena dared to look at the king and could not take her eyes  away. He was only a hair shorter than Artemis and had short, clean-cut  brown hair and auburn eyes with deep laugh lines etched into their  corners. His short beard was full and wiry and speckled with gray. His  shoulders were broad, his arms strong, and instead of being dressed to  meet a neighboring king in velvet robes, he was wearing a comfortable  hunting uniform—high boots, a leather jerkin, and an emerald wool  cloak.

Serena thought of her mother and what she must have thought the first  time she’d laid eyes on this man. Had she loved him immediately? Had  they been betrothed, or had they met by chance?

Because her mother had always refused to speak of the man, Serena  realized that she knew nothing about him. Not if he was kind or gentle,  not if he loved children, not if he had any hobbies or particular  tastes. But she knew how her mother had smiled sometimes in a far-off  way, and how her mother had cried so many nights when she thought  Serena was asleep.

“It’s no bother at all,” Artemis was saying. “We are forever in  your debt. Without the help from you and your army it would take us  months to get everything sorted out.”

Kenneth waved away the gratitude. “Think nothing of it. Beryl was a  mutual enemy and I’m only sorry we didn’t arrive sooner to join in  the fight.”

“All is well in the end. Now then—what had you wished to discuss?”

Serena chewed on the inside of her cheek, waiting for King Kenneth to  notice her, but he did not seem in the habit of directing his gaze at  anyone other than the person he meant to speak with.

“Two things. The first is what we intend to do with Cashlin now that  Beryl has been eliminated. It will need a new ruler, and quickly. The  whole country has suffered from Beryl’s tyranny—the sooner we can  install a new king and ally them, the better.”

“I fully agree, and believe I have just the solution. In fact, we will  not be installing a king, but a queen.”

Kenneth raised an eyebrow. “A queen?”

“Yes. We have been lucky enough to find Princess Snow White.”

“Snow White! However did you find her? I was told she was impeccably  well hidden.”

Now it was Artemis’s turn to look curious. “Well hidden, Your  Majesty? We all thought she was dead!”

Kenneth laughed, a hearty, booming laugh that quickened Serena’s  heart. “That’s right! I’m sorry to have kept the secret, but it was  of dire importance. You see, one of our personal guards was the very  man who rescued her and took her to safety. Alex?”

Alex stepped forward out of the line of guards, his expression refusing  to hint at any sign of pride in the matter.

“Ah, yes! We have had some dealings with this gentleman.”

“And while we’re all standing here,” interrupted Luna, “this may be  as good a time as any to apologize profusely for throwing you in the  dungeons. We were sorely mislead.”

Alex bowed. “It has already been forgotten, Your Majesty.”

Briar Rose was watching Alex from the corner of her eye, but he did not  return the gaze.

“Of course it makes perfect sense with Beryl gone that Snow White can  come out of hiding and reclaim her throne. Have you discussed it with  her?”

“Not yet, but I think she will be happy to return home. If I recall  correctly, the people of Cashlin were always quite smitten with her and  would be happy to call her queen.”

“I think you are right. We will have to discuss it further with her,  but for the time being it sounds like a simple and reasonable solution.  Now then, the other thing I wanted to talk to you about.” King Kenneth  reached out toward Briar Rose, putting his arm around her in the way  that affectionate fathers do and Serena felt a momentary twist of  jealousy in her stomach. “I have been informed with utmost sorrow over  the recent deaths of your youngest sons, Princes Jadeite and Endymion.  I wish to extend my personal sympathies. No parent should live to see  the death of any child.”

Artemis and Luna accepted the sympathies with gentle nods. “The  passing of Endymion is our greatest tragedy,” Luna confirmed. “But we  are lucky enough to say that the Guardian of Happy Endings has been  able to bring life back to Jadeite.”

Kenneth’s eyes widened in surprise. “Is that so? My—congratulations!  That is wonderful news!”

“We couldn’t agree more.”

“Well then… I do apologize for the forthrightness of this suggestion  and hope you do not see my concerns as being too frank, but thought  perhaps we should discuss the matter of once again joining our kingdoms  through the sacred unity of marriage.”

Serena’s heart skipped and she could not help glancing at Briar Rose,  still sheltered beneath her father’s arm. She would make eye contact  with no one, but her expression looked purely miserable.

“You mean between Briar Rose and Jadeite?” Luna breathed. “So soon? ”

“Yes—and I again apologize for the bluntness, but in times like these  it can be a great blessing to show the people how life carries on, and  what better way to do that than a wedding? And as we have planned on  uniting our countries for so long…”

“Your request is refused.”

Everyone turned to look at Serena. She felt no embarrassment at her  interruption. There was no way she would let Briar Rose marry Jadeite,  and everyone might as well know that right up front.

Kenneth was staring at her, eyes full of shock. She cleared her throat.  “My apologies, Your Highness,” she continued, “but a marriage union  between Princess Briar Rose and Prince Jadeite is out of the question.  Prince Jadeite, I’m afraid, is already engaged—to Princess Snow  White.”

It wasn’t entirely true, and she inwardly prayed that Luna and Artemis  would not call her on the fib. She figured an engagement between the  two couldn’t be far off, so what did it matter?

But Kenneth had no response for her, just continued to gape, as if  Serena were a phantom from the dead.

She grew increasingly uncomfortable beneath his stare, and couldn’t  help shifting her eyes around the room. She spotted Briar Rose, who  looked overjoyed with Serena’s comment, though that relief was quickly  turning into concern at the king’s silence.

“Father…” she ventured, but he stepped away from her, releasing the  arm over her shoulder as if he had not heard her.

Serena took a step back, noticing that there were sudden tears in his  eyes—tears that terrified her.

“Is it… my goodness… it is you…” the king muttered, his gaze  drifting over every inch of Serena’s face.

She gulped. “Yes…” she slowly responded, looking up into the king’s  astonished eyes. “It is.”

He shook his head with disbelief. “You look just like your mother.”

Chapter 34: Beginnings

…and they lived happily to the end of their days.
from Grimm’s Fairy Tales

Serena was grateful that his tears were not yet falling, because the  mention of her mother sent water filling up her own lashes and she didn ’t think she could stand any more crying.

Speechless, she simply nodded.

“And you’re safe,” her father proclaimed, a grin lighting up his  features. “I was afraid the curse would find you anyway, but we  succeeded! And you’re here! I didn’t even know that you’d come home.  Is your mother…?”

“No… Mom didn’t come with me.”

“But she’s all right? How is she?”

“She’s fine.”

The king nodded, his eyes still brimming with delight. “And you? How  are you? It’s been so long… you were so tiny then.”

“It was sixteen years ago.”

“Yes, I know. I’ve counted them. And now look at you. So pretty and  well-spoken.”

“You don’t know anything about me,” she spat, a sudden bitterness  stinging her words, and she regretted them the moment they left her.

Kenneth stepped back, surprised. “Yes… I know…. But goodness, I did  not want it to be this way. We all decided it was the only way to  protect you…”

“Well it didn’t protect me. I’m sorry, but your grand plan failed.  The curse still got me, I still had to defeat Beryl, I still fell in  love with Endymion, and I still lost him!” She started crying, hot  tears that she had desperately wanted to avoid now sweeping down her  cheeks in rivers. “The only thing that was different was that I didn’ t have a father. Was that I grew up thinking my father was a selfish  jerk who had abandoned my mom and left us with nothing. Who was too  busy to love me. Who made my mother cry… all the time…”

Serena turned away, swiping at the tears with her sleeve.

“Father, what is going on?”

Serena could feel Kenneth’s attention shift away from her and used the  moment to gather herself. She was already feeling guilty—not from the  words she had said, but from who she had said them in front of. When  she saw how Kenneth was looking at Briar Rose she knew that he felt the  same way—but possibly a hundred times worse.

“Briar Rose…” Kenneth stuttered, shame thick in his voice.

“Well?” Briar Rose hissed. “How do you know Serena? And what in  Grimm’s name are you talking about?”

Kenneth cast his eyes downward.

“Perhaps we should step out for a moment,” Artemis mumbled as  politely as he could, before silently leading Luna out of the room.

Kenneth did not dismiss the guards—Serena doubted he even noticed  them, but a quick glance told her that Alex was watching the scene with  a concerned frown. She began to think he’d already guessed the truth.

“Well? Are you going to answer me?”

“Briar Rose…. This is… complicated.”

She folded her arms and scowled. But through her anger and stubbornness  was a clear film of fear, and the bright white aura hanging above her  head was trembling.

“Then you’d better start explaining,” she snapped.

“This is… I hope you’ll understand. And before I tell you I want you  to know that I love you very much.”

“Just tell what’s going on.”

Serena could see Kenneth’s jaw working to form the words. “Yes… you  see… this girl, this… what are they calling you?”

“Serena. My name is Serena.”

Kenneth nodded. “Serena, here, is… is… well…. Your sister, in a  way.”

Serena scoffed, her blood beginning to boil. “Rubbish!”

“It is not rubbish!” the king bellowed, turning back to Serena. “You  are both my daughters, and I love you equally. Therefore, in my eyes,  you are sisters.”

“We are not both your daughters,” Serena growled. “Briar Rose may  be, but I am not. And you are a fool for thinking you love us equally— you don’t even know me.”

“Daughters?” Briar Rose screeched. “What do you mean we’re both  your daughters? We’re practically the same age! And we’re certainly  not twins.”

Kenneth threw his arms into the air. “It’s just like two teenage  girls to turn against their father like this.”

“Serena,” Briar Rose snapped. “I can’t get make an ounce of sense  out of him. Please tell me what this is all about.”

Like any princess, Briar Rose was skilled at pleading, and demanding,  and Serena could not refuse the request. After all—she had a right to  know.

“All right,” she began. “Sixteen years ago, I was born as Princess  Briar Rose of Obelia.” Serena’s emotions were numbed—her childhood  was only solid facts. “I was betrothed to Endymion, and then I was  cursed by Beryl. Fearful that Beryl would stop at nothing until I was  dead, my parents—the King and Queen of Obelia—decided to hide me away  somewhere Beryl could not find me. And so my mother took me to the  world of the storytellers. Everyone was told that the queen had died  from illness. As for the baby…”

Briar Rose’s lips were white, and she nodded in understanding as  Serena trailed off. “They found a replacement,” she whispered.

A stillness fell over the room as Briar Rose mulled over her true  history, reconsidered everything that had made her who she was.

“Briar Rose…” Kenneth whispered.

“Where did you find me?” she interrupted with a voice of steel. “Do  I have some other parents, somewhere, waiting for me to return now that  the real princess is back?”

“No, no…. You were orphaned. Your father was one of our best hunters —he was killed by a wild boar, and your mother was a lady-in-waiting;  she died in childbirth.”

“Well it was terribly convenient, wasn’t it? You needed a baby to  pose as your daughter and there I was. Well, now that you have no  further need of me, I suppose I’ll just go work in the kitchens. Don’ t worry, Serena, I’m sure my quarters will be perfectly accommodating  for you.”

“Briar Rose, darling, don’t be ridiculous.”

“Who is being ridiculous?” she retorted. “Everything you have ever  told me has been a lie. Is my real name even Briar Rose?” When Kenneth  looked guilt-ridden, the princess threw her arms into the air. “It’s  not, is it? I don’t even know my real name!”

“Please, calm down. I didn’t want to keep it all from you, but I had  to… Briar Rose, I have always thought of you as a daughter. I have  always loved you, from the day you were put into my arms. Just as I  always loved you, Serena, despite what you say.”

“I don’t want to hear it,” Briar Rose hissed. “Just tell me my real  name and then sentence me to whatever life of servitude I’m destined  for.”

“Do you really think I would cast you out like that?”

“Why would you keep me? You have her now.” Briar Rose’s eyes burned  as she gestured at Serena. “First she stole my curse, and then my  fiancé, and now she’s stealing my crown and my father and my kingdom.  What does it matter anymore? Take it all! After all, I’m just the  daughter of a—” The words died on her tongue and the anger on her  face melted almost instantly into surprise. “What is my real name?”  she whispered after a moment of silence.

“Your mother wanted to call you Michelle,” Kenneth said. “It was one  of the last things she said. That—and that she loved you.”

“Michelle…”

“But you are my little princess, my little Briar Rose. I truly do love  you. I have never lied about that…. And I will not abandon you, you  must know that.”

Briar Rose nodded. “I know, Father. It just… comes as a bit of a  surprise, is all.”

Impressed with Briar Rose’s composure, the kind of calm that could  only come with a lifetime of diplomatic training, Serena felt her own  bitterness draining away. Kenneth did seem to honestly love his  daughter, as Serena knew that he would have honestly loved her if he’d  been given the chance.

“But it is true, isn’t it, that I am not officially a princess?”  Briar Rose continued.

“Briar Rose, the people of Obelia love you. While Serena may wish to  claim her place to the throne…”

Briar Rose ignored him, her breath quickening and her eyes brightening  beneath her thick eyelashes. “But if I am not a princess, and you are  not my father, then you cannot tell me who to marry.”

Kenneth’s jaw fell open and he reeled back a couple of steps. “Marry?  Is that what you’re talking about? Goodness, Briar Rose, but of course  I’m still going to tell you who to marry! Why wouldn’t you want me to  find you a suitable husband? Have you lost your wits?”

Briar Rose—surprisingly—laughed. The joyful, tinkling sound vibrated  throughout the room. “No, you can’t. You can try, of course, but I  won’t listen to you. All my life I’ve thought that I was stuck in  this betrothal because that’s what princesses do—they marry the  princes their fathers find for them. It’s for the best of their  kingdom, and for the throne, and for all their people. But I don’t  have that responsibility anymore and I won’t take it back. I can marry  anyone I want to now and you can’t say anything about it. Whether I  choose to marry a…. a farmer, or a baker, or… or…” She laughed  again, clapping her hands together over her heart as if the world had  just played a very big joke on her and had finally reached the punch  line.

Her happiness was contagious. Serena laughed too, adding, “Or even a  huntsman!”

“Or even a huntsman!” Briar Rose agreed through her giggles. “Or a  castle guard! Can you imagine? After all this time, I… I…”

“A huntsman? A castle guard? What are you girls talking about?”

Serena risked a glance at Alex and saw that the guard was watching the  late princess with disbelief.

“Briar Rose, are you trying to tell me… Does my little girl have a….  a beaux?”

The word was whispered with such forbidden incredulity that it sent  Serena and Briar Rose into a new fit of laughter, even as Briar Rose  shook her head. “No, Father, I would never…! But I… there is… there  is someone…” She caught her breath and dabbed at the corner of her  eye with her sleeve. “Although… I guess I don’t even know if he  would have me.”

“Who?” the king bellowed. “Who in Grimm’s name is my daughter so  smitten with, and she never even bothered to tell me?”

Still breathless, Briar Rose lowered her eyes—a shyness creeping into  her confidence.

Serena glanced at the line of guards and could see them glancing at  each other from the corners of their eyes, wondering if someone in  their midst was the man Briar Rose was speaking of. And then there was  Alex. His gloved hands were clutched into terrified fists, his face  pale and his jaw flexing as he tried to decide whether or not to speak  up. He happened to meet Serena’s gaze, then, and looked instantly  embarrassed to see her watching him, seeing straight through him.

But she smiled as kindly as she could, and nodded. A given permission  from the Guardian of Happy Endings, and it seemed to be all Alex  needed.

Alex nervously stepped out of the line of guards. “Your…” he  croaked, then cleared his throat and began again, “Your Majesty, if I  may have permission to speak?”

Kenneth turned to Alex with a look that could not have been more  shocked if Alex had turned into a toad before his very eyes.  “Permission granted,” he finally growled, glancing at his daughter to  see her eyes locked on the guard with a barely-repressed smile.

It took Alex another moment to muster his courage. “After listening to  all that has been said here, I find myself thinking… well, hoping, in  fact, that… Her Majesty, the Princess Briar Rose… speaks… possibly…  of me.” He gulped and lowered his eyes from the king. “Though I  assure you my intentions and actions toward Her Majesty have always  been of the most honorable, I… confess that I have developed… some…  feelings… not appropriate for a guard to have toward his princess, but … but perhaps…”

He trailed off and Serena almost began to pity the poor boy. Though he  had never once flinched throughout the escape to the dungeons and the  battle with Cashlin, he now looked positively horrified.

Briar Rose, on the other hand, did not seem to pity him in the  slightest. Rather, she muttered saucily beneath her breath, “I knew  you were in love with me.”

With a surprised cough, Alex had no choice but to look up at her, but  the smile she could no longer hide was so overwhelming that he was able  to let out the breath he had held and almost found himself smiling  back.

Until the king barked, “Stop ogling my daughter like that!”

Alex snapped back to attention, bowing low at the waist with his arms  locked at his side.

Briar Rose couldn’t help giggling, immune to her father’s temper.

“Well then,” Kenneth continued, “now that you’ve made a blithering  fool of yourself, my boy, why don’t you get to the point and ask what  it is you want to ask?”

Meeting the king’s glower, Alex gathered his voice again. “Your  Majesty, I would like to ask for the honor of Briar Rose’s hand in  marriage.”

Kenneth folded his arms, his gaze dark and brooding as he stared down  the guard. “You would, would you? And how do I know that you’re good  enough for my baby girl?”

Alex gaped, thinking it must be a trick question. Shaking his head, he  responded, “Your Majesty… nobody is good enough for her.”

Kenneth squinted, watching Alex with deep suspicion for a long, awkward  silence.

Finally, just as Serena was beginning to think she would have to  intervene again, the king reached out and pulled Alex toward him with a  jubilant laugh, clapping him on the back and booming, “Welcome to the  family, m’boy!”

He’d released the stunned guard before Alex could even think about  returning the embrace.

“I always liked you, I want you to know that. You’re a good lad. I  know you’ll take good care of her. But you,” he turned on Briar Rose,  “nearly scared me to death! I thought you were planning on eloping  with some vagabond! You wretched girl, never do that to me again!”

Laughing, Briar Rose threw her arms around her father’s broad  shoulders. “Oh, thank you, Daddy, thank you!”

“I suppose you’ll still be wanting me to pay for the wedding, won’t  you?”

Briar Rose planted a kiss on her father’s cheek without bothering to  reply, then pulled away and turned toward Alex with a look that  teetered between blissful and terrified. His expression mirrored hers,  and though Serena could tell they were both dying to know the  protective circle of each other’s arms and the unfamiliar touch of  each other’s lips—neither had any idea how to get there.

“Well,” Kenneth harrumphed, turning away from the awkward couple, “I  was miraculously able to make one daughter happy. Now what am I going  to do with you?”

Serena smiled—it was too good of a moment not to smile. “What’s done  is done,” Serena said. “I am sorry that I didn’t know you growing  up, but I forgive you.”

“Thank you,” Kenneth whispered. “And I am sorry.”

“I know.” She sighed. “Now then, we still have some important  political matters to discuss.”

Briar Rose groaned. “Aren’t we done talking about all that yet?”

Snickering, Serena shook her head. “Almost. You see, Briar Rose, I’m  afraid you are still going to be stuck with the crown.”

“What?”

“I will not be taking it from you. Not only do I not want to rule  Obelia, but I can’t rule Obelia. I forfeited my right to be queen when  I became a guardian, and therefore the responsibility falls on you.”

Briar Rose cast a scared look at Alex, who instinctively reached for  her hand, sending the signal to everybody that he would not lose her  now that he had finally got her.

“Don’t worry,” said Serena. “I’m sure Lord Grimm will be happy to  perform the necessary rituals to make you a legal princess. And… I  know that Alex will make a splendid king. What do you think, Your  Majesty?”

Kenneth could not help but agree. “I can think of no one better. But  then… what will you do? We have just met… I was hoping I might be  able to get to know my daughter… after so many years…”

“I’m sorry,” Serena said, and she truly was. “I would like that,  too, but… I don’t think I’ll be staying much longer. This is not my  home. And… I miss Mom.”

“You are not the only one who misses her.”

For a moment, there was pure misery in his face, and Serena felt her  heart breaking. Perhaps King Kenneth was the only other person in this  whole land who knew the true meaning of heartbreak.

“You should know that she still loves you,” Serena said. “She’s  never told me so, but I know… I know that she does. And perhaps… she ’ll be ready to return.”

“You should both return. You belong here as much as she does, Serena.  I don’t care what the rules of guardians are, you are a princess here. ”

“Thank you. But… I don’t belong here, not like she does. This is her  true home. Not mine.”

“If ever you change your mind, you have a home here. A kingdom that  will always welcome you.”

Serena grinned. “I have three kingdoms that will always welcome me  here. Thank you. It was wonderful to finally meet you.”

Kenneth uncertainly held his arms out to her and Serena did not  hesitate in accepting the warm hug. His cloak smelled like fir trees  and his beard scratched her forehead when he squeezed her tight—and it  was exactly like being held by the father she’d always dreamt of.

“Thank you,” she whispered.

“Will you tell your mother hello for me?” he pleaded. “Will you tell  her… tell her that I love her? As much as the day I married her. And  that I miss her so very much.”

“Yes. I’ll tell her.” She glanced at Briar Rose and Alex, their  hands still intertwined.

“Thank you, Serena,” Briar Rose said. “I knew you would help make  everything right.”

She smiled. “I’m the Guardian of Happy Endings. That’s what I do.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

“You don’t have to go. You know that, right?”

Serena nodded, patting Artemis’s hand. “I know. But I can’t stay  here. This isn’t my home.”

“But this is your home. And we’re your family now. In my mind, you’ re as much a daughter-in-law as any of these lovely girls here.”

Serena smiled. The words did not sting as they would have only days  before, because she knew they were true. “And I see all of you as my  family, too.” She looked around at all the sad faces filling up the  tiny hovel that Wilhelm Grimm had built. The single-room house was full  and crowded and the air was hot from all the bodies, but Serena hardly  noticed. It took all of her willpower to remain smiling—it was nearly  impossible, what with Mina sniffling in the corner and Amy, Raye, and  Lita all looking at her with dampened eyes.

“Now stop that,” Serena scolded. “All of you. I might come back, you  never know. This isn’t necessarily good-bye.”

“Might come back, she says,” Jadeite scoffed.

“What if something comes up and we need you?” whined Mina. “You’re  the only guardian we have left.”

“You were doing perfectly fine before you had any guardians at all.  Maybe even better.”

“But you’re not like those villains. Besides, we had the storytellers  then, and we don’t even have them anymore.”

Serena glanced at Jacob, but he didn’t look offended. “Don’t worry,  I will keep close watch on Miss Serena as long as these old bones allow  me to,” Jacob said. Though he was sitting in the only chair in the  room, stroking Puss in Boots who had curled up lazily on his lap, he  did not look like the old man Serena had met on Thornrose Lane. The  adventure had awakened something in him. His cheeks had more color, his  eyes were more alert, and the crook in his back had amazingly started  to straighten out. Serena believed it was the magic in the air doing it  to him. He must have simply spent too many years away from Aysel, and  now the land was welcoming him back with open arms.

“Yes, Jacob will be able to come get me if any emergencies arise,”  Serena pointed out. “So you see? I might come back.”

“I still don’t like that might,” muttered Jadeite. “You’re the  best thing that’s ever happened to this kingdom, Serena. After the  storytellers, of course.” He ventured a teasing smile at Jacob.

“You’re the best thing that’s happened to all the kingdoms,” added  Raye, who had spent the last few days preparing for both the Cashlin  crowning ceremony and a wedding. It hadn’t taken long for her and  Jadeite to realize it was the only possible future for them—and they  both expected it to be a very happy one.

“Hey, ‘as everyone forgotten who dug under the castle and got you all  out o’ jail in the firs’ place? What is she gettin’ all the praise  for?” grumbled Wilopin.

“Not to mention who dropped the coffin and woke up Snow Drop over  there,” pointed out Vlonterp.

“An’ who foun’ Master Soy Breath drownin’ in that river and brought  ‘im home,” added Wilopin. “In fact, I’m thinkin’ that we dwarfs  are the best thing that’s ‘appened to all three kingdoms, but  everyone always forget to thank the li’l guys.”

Laughing, Serena said, “You see? What do you need me for when you have  the seven dwarfs looking after you?”

“But who’s going to look after them?” teased Lita.

There was more chuckling, but it was cut short when Serena did not join  in.

“Serena…” Amy murmured, reaching for the girl’s hand.

“I am going to miss you,” Serena whispered. “Every one of you. More  than you know.”

“We know,” refuted Amy. “It’s almost as much as we’re going to  miss you.”

“And it isn’t just because you did so much to help us,” said  Nephlite. “It’s also because you got us to stop being so stubborn…”

“You were the only stubborn one,” Lita joked, elbowing her husband in  the stomach.

“And because you taught us to be brave when we were ready to give up, ” added Zoicite. “And because you always put our happiness before  your own. You’ve become a sister to us.”

There was a chorus of nodding and Serena had to close her eyes to keep  the tears in. “Stop it. I didn’t want to cry.”

“You thought it could be helped?” asked Raye, pulling Serena into a  hug. “You always have a home here.”

“I know. Thank you.”

She was passed around a circle of embraces. Luna was sobbing the  loudest when Serena got to her, wails so enthusiastic it almost made  Serena laugh. The dwarfs seemed to have the only dry eyes in the place,  but they did not hesitate to supply hugs of their own, all the while  grumbling about how much they hated good-byes. Even Hansel and Gretel  had come to see her off and they were sniffling through reddened noses.  Serena’s heart ached at the thought of never seeing their round  freckled faces again. She pulled them both into a hug, burying her face  in their soft, messy hair. “You be good, okay?”

“You be good,” replied Hansel, and Gretel backed him up with a firm  nod.

“I’ll try,” she whispered, standing up and taking one last sweeping  look at the crowd. Jacob pulled himself out of the rocking chair.  Rudely awakened, Puss hopped onto the wooden floor and blinked up at  the storyteller with irritated red eyes, a glare that went ignored.

“Thank you again, Miss Serena,” Jacob said. “I am sorry that I could  not give you the happy ending you deserve.”

“It may not be exactly happily ever after, but you showed me that  fairy tales really do come true. And that’s more than I ever hoped to  know.”

Puss in Boots meowed, plodding toward the front door and pawing at the  frame.

“You’re right. It’s time to go,” said Serena, and was met with a  chorus of complaints, but nobody tried to stop her as she walked slowly  to the door and placed her hand on the knob.

“Well, this is it, then. Good bye, everyone. Thank you for everything.  Maybe… someday…”

“Ah, jus’ get outta ‘ere before you make me get all choked up,”  growled Gralogwid, and Serena couldn’t help smiling at him through  watery eyes.

“You have to close your eyes, and make sure the door shuts behind you, ” coached Jacob.

Serena nodded, meeting the gazes of all of her friends one last time,  before closing her eyes.

She took a deep breath—the air was filled with freshness and sunshine —and opened the door.

Serena expected the roller-coaster tumbling of her stomach as she  breached the veil between the two worlds, but it did not make it any  more bearable. When the feeling had subsided and left her dizzy, she  fell back against the wooden door and slowly opened her eyes.

The house on Thornrose Lane had not changed. The yard was still full of  weeds and dandelions and overgrown grass, and even more bruised apples  littered the ground beneath the sickly apple tree. The sky was gray and  dreary and Serena thought it must be the afternoon, though she couldn’ t see the sun through the thick layer of clouds.

It looked like it might rain.

A breeze blew across the patio and Serena wrapped her arms around  herself to ward off the chill.

“So I guess that’s that,” she murmured to the forlorn yard.

She started down the creaky stairs but a movement against her ankle  made her yelp and jump away, grasping for the railing.

Puss in Boots blinked up at her nonplussed.

Serena chuckled. “Thought you would miss me too much?”

The cat tilted his head to the side and began licking one of his white  paws.

“All right, then. Let’s get going before it starts to rain. You  remember where you found me, right? It’s a bit of a walk.”

Puss did not mind as she picked him up. He snuggled against her  collarbone and sent a gentle purr thrumming against Serena’s throat.  “That’s right, Puss. Home sweet home.”


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

“Mom!” Serena cried, throwing open the front door. Puss scurried out  of her arms as Serena rushed down the hallway. “Mom, where are you?”

“Serena?” her mother came breezing out of the kitchen, wearing a  cotton dress and white slippers. “Serena! Oh my—Serena! Oh, thank  goodness.” There were tears in her eyes before she could even wrap her  arms around Serena and then they were both crying. It was with the  comforting circle of her mom’s arms that Serena realized just how very  homesick she had been. She sobbed into her mother’s shoulder, wanting  to explain, to tell her everything, but she couldn’t find her voice.

“Serena, I was so worried. I didn’t know if you would ever come home …”

“Mama, I went… I was at…”

“Aysel. I know, honey, Lord Grimm told me. It didn’t help.” She  pulled far enough away to grasp Serena’s face in her hands, analyzing  the flushed cheeks and glittering eyes. “It didn’t help ease my  worries at all. Aysel… it’s dangerous for you…”

“Not anymore, Mom. Beryl’s gone. I defeated her.”

Her mother’s jaw dropped. “Defeated her?”

“It’s a long story.” Serena sniffled, tying her arms around her mom ’s waist again and squeezing her tight. “I missed you so much.”

“I missed you too, honey. I missed you too.” She kissed Serena on the  forehead. “And I missed your birthday! Come here, come here.” She  broke away from Serena’s embrace and grabbed onto her hand, pulling  her into the kitchen. “I wanted to have your favorite cake ready when  you got home, but I didn’t know how long… But I’ll make one right  now. We’ll make it together, okay?”

“Double-chocolate with chocolate cream cheese frosting?”

“Well what else would I make for your birthday?”

Serena laughed and forced her way into her mom’s arms again, not ready  for the contact to be over. “Mama…I met my father.”

She felt her mom take a deep breath, her chest rising beneath Serena’s  ear. “I wondered…” she whispered. “And… how is he…?”

“He wanted me to tell you hello for him. And he wanted you to know  that he still loves you, as much as the day he married you. And that he  misses you very much. And he wants you to come home.”

Her mom raised her hand to brush away some fallen tears.

“I told him that you still loved him too.”

“Oh you did, did you?”

“I knew it was true. You still cry over him.”

A wry laugh escaped her mom’s lips. “I never knew you were so  observant.”

“He wanted you to come back, Mom.” Serena pulled away, holding her  mom at arm’s length so that she could look into her watery gaze. “And  maybe… maybe you should go back, if you want to. I know… how much you  must miss it.”

Her mom gulped. “It is my home, and it always will be…”

“I would understand if you wanted to go back. I would. And I could  stay with Melvin…”

“You wouldn’t come with me?”

“No, mom. I’ve thought about it and… this is my home.”

Her mom sighed and slumped against the kitchen counter. Serena could  tell that she was considering her life then and her life now, and she  could see the desire in her face to return to her kingdom, her crown…  and the love of her life.

But then she shook her head and smiled at Serena. “Don’t be silly. I  could never leave you, Serena. You’re the most wonderful thing in my  life.”

“But I want you to be happy.”

“And I would be miserable without my baby girl.” She pursed her lips  in thought, then shrugged. “Perhaps when you’re older and can go out  and make it on your own… then I’ll think about what’s best for me.  But until then there will be no more talk of me leaving. I love you far  too much for that, Serena.”

Serena broke into a grin and threw herself at her mom again. “That’s  a deal. To be honest… I didn’t really want you to leave.”

Her mom chuckled and stroked Serena’s hair. “It’s good to know that  you still want me around. Besides, it’s been sixteen years already.  What’s another three or four to watch your little girl grow up?”

Serena accepted another kiss on her forehead before her mom set about  gathering bowls and pans. “I want to mix,” she said, climbing onto a  stool at the table as her mom pulled baking ingredients from the  cupboard. It was a little unnerving, the familiarity of it all, the  normalcy.

“So tell me what else I’ve been missing all these years. Did you meet  Luna and Artemis?”

“Oh yeah. I stayed at Aysel castle the whole time.”

“Wonderful people, aren’t they? You know, Luna and I were childhood  friends.”

“Were you really?”

“Oh yes. We used to get in so much trouble, always getting our dresses  muddy and showing up filthy for very important ceremonies. She was the  troublemaker, really. I just went along with it. So how about their  children? Did they stop at five or have they had more since I left?”

“No, just the five boys.”

“My, they must be getting old by now.”

Serena nodded. “Malachite’s married and has a baby girl—she was born  just before I got there. And Nephlite and Zoicite were both married  while I was there.”

“Oh! Did you get to see a royal wedding? Aren’t they spectacular?”

Serena laughed, feeling a bond with her mother she’d never known  before. Finally she knew something of her mom’s childhood and her own  father. Finally there would be no more secrets between them. The  thought made her giddy.

“It was spectacular. Everything was beautiful and romantic… just like  a fairy tale.”

“Yes, exactly like a fairy tale.”

“And then there’s Jadeite, and he got engaged just before I left. To  Princess Snow White of Cashlin, actually.”

“Did he really? I always wondered about that poor girl… having to  live with that horrible witch as a stepmother, especially after her  father died…”

“Yeah, but she turned out pretty well. She actually left Cashlin years  ago and started living with seven dwarfs in the woods, and she was  happy there. They protected her.”

“Did you say seven dwarfs?”

“It’s complicated. But anyhow, she’ll be made queen now, with Beryl  gone. And Jadeite will be king.”

“What a fabulous union between Cashlin and Aysel. I’m sure everyone’ s very happy.”

“They are. It all worked out in the end.”

“And…” her mother prodded, breaking some eggs into a bowl.

“And what?”

“And what about little Endymion? I half-expected you to come home  married… they did tell you about… your betrothal… didn’t they?”

Serena felt an awkward chill on her spine and lowered her eyes to the  table. “Yeah. They told me.”

“Honey, what’s wrong?” her mom asked, concern creasing her brow as  she claimed the stool beside Serena.

“Endymion…” she began, wondering how she could possibly explain  everything that had happened, all that she had felt in such a short  period of time.

“You fell in love with him,” her mother murmured, placing her hand  over Serena’s. “I can see that.”

Serena nodded. “And he woke me from the curse with love’s first kiss, ” she whispered, “just like the story said he would.”

“But…?”

“But… then, he died.” She almost choked on the last word, and her  mom was holding her before tears could slip down her face again. “And  I couldn’t save him, Mama. I couldn’t do anything to save him.”

“I’m sorry, honey. I’m so sorry.” She waited a long time, rubbing  Serena’s back and petting her hair, until the sobs had started to  subside. “Listen, Serena, I told your teachers that your grandma was  dying, and you’d gone to take care of her for awhile. You can take  what time you need before going back, okay? I know you’ve been through  an awful lot.”

“Thanks,” she muttered through her sniffles. “Would it be okay if I  went and laid down for awhile?”

“That’s fine. I’ll finish up the cake and it’ll be ready by the  time you come back down.”

“Thanks, Mom. I love you.”

“I love you too. I’m glad you’re home.”

“Me too.”

“Oh, and sweetie?”

Serena paused in the doorway.

“Melvin usually stops in after school, to ask for any news about you.  Do you want me to tell him you’re home?”

Serena thought about it briefly, before nodding. “Sure. It’d be good  to see an old friend.” She slipped up the stairs to her bedroom and  found Puss in Boots standing by her door, as if he’d known just which  room was hers. With a small smile, she bent down and picked him up,  holding him close to her chest.

“I’m glad you came back with me, Puss.” She brought him into her  bedroom and sat down on her bed. She took a moment to survey the room.  It hadn’t changed. Her school clothes were still scattered over the  floor, pictures of her, her mom, and Melvin littered the dresser, and  she noticed that the charcoal sky had started to drizzle beyond her  white eyelet curtains. “For three weeks I was a princess, and a  guardian, and a Chosen One,” she said, scratching the cat behind his  ears. “But you know… it feels kind of good now to just be me.”

Puss purred back his response and soon fell asleep.


---------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------

Time was not healing her heart. Though she had been home for nearly a  week, each new morning only brought more heartache. Serena found  herself drawn to her bed more often, snuggled between her covers and  sheets with Puss in Boots stretched out beside her and the memories of  Endymion weighing her down.

And she cried. All the time, she cried, and finally understood all  those nights she had heard her mother’s sobs in the next room.

Without the responsibility of being a guardian to distract her, Serena  found her mind occupied only with thoughts of those three weeks,  starting with the moment she had first met Endymion in the dining room —thrown herself into his arms as if they were already lovers. She’d  been so deathly embarrassed at the time, but now she thought on it with  reminiscent smiles. How surprised he had been, how he had teased her  afterwards.

She thought of their arguments, and their apologies. How he had nearly  kissed her in the moonlight outside Raye’s cottage. How they had  danced at the wedding when she’d had to use every ounce of strength to  keep herself from falling madly in love with him, when she still  believed they were not meant to be together.

Thinking of those moments when she had pushed him away twisted like a  knife in her chest, brought her tears rising to the surface again. How  she had rejected his advances time and time again, even knowing how  terrified he was of love, and how brave he must have been to confess  his feelings for her.

She thought of Trista, the singing harp, who had told the truth after  all.

At times the memories became too much to stand and Serena would curl  into a ball beneath her quilts and sob until her throat hurt. A piece  of her was missing. A piece of her had died when she had held Endymion ’s body in her arms, the echo of his kiss still on her lips. A piece  she knew she would never get back.

But Puss never left her side at those times when she felt her future  crumbling to pieces around her, and it was that constant comfort that  always brought her back around with a weak smile.

And Melvin came to visit her every day, sometimes in the morning and  again in the afternoon—and sometimes even again, after dinner. He  never asked why she was still in bed, why she was behaving that way,  why she was so miserable. Serena let him believe she was mourning the  death of her grandmother, but she thought he knew otherwise. After all,  she’d never even mentioned a grandmother before, why would she now be  so torn over her death? But even if Melvin had figured out that Serena ’s depression was from some other cause, he never let on, and she was  grateful for that. She was keeping Endymion locked in her heart and was  not ready to share him with anyone.

Serena did not want to have to find those words to explain, to anyone,  what had happened.

And so Melvin did not ask her about where she had been or what she had  done or why she always had swollen red eyes when he came to visit.  Instead he told her about their homework—that Serena knew she would  never complete—and the new species he had added to his Lepidoptera  collection, and all the school gossip.

And he talked about Darien Shields.

Maybe he didn’t notice that Serena’s eyes never lit up anymore when  he talked about Darien, because Melvin still came in excited with a  hushed voice when he had news on the heartthrob, like he always had,  and he pretended that Serena was on the edge of her seat waiting to  hear the news.

It turned out that Darien had asked about her after she’d gone missing  from the school, without Melvin even having to bring her up. “Whatever  happened to that blonde girl you always hang out with?” he’d asked  one day. “I never see her around anymore.”

Melvin had told him about her sick grandmother and then, every day,  Darien would inquire after her.

Serena would smile at the stories and listen politely, thinking only of  the day she had mistaken Endymion for Darien Shields, the day  everything had changed.

A knock at her bedroom door startled Serena from her dreaming. She had  not been crying, or even dozing off, but her head had been filled with  Endymion—again.

She sat up and checked the clock, seeing that school had just gotten  out and knew that Melvin was here to tell her all about the new drama  at Crossroads High.

“Come in.”

The door creaked open and a head of black hair and vibrant blue eyes  poked in.

Serena’s heart jumped into her throat, her breath choking her on its  way into her lungs.

“Hi,” he said, shifting the door open a bit farther, though his hand  was still latched to the handle. “Um… I’m… Darien Shields. I’m a  friend of Melvin’s?”

She found her breath, felt blood rushing to her cheeks. With a  strangled gulp, she nodded. “I know who you are,” she whispered.

“Is this a bad time? I won’t stay long…”
“No, it’s okay… I was just… um… taking a nap…”

“Sorry,” he said, but he didn’t look guilty as he shut the door  behind him and thrust his hands into his pockets, his gaze shifting  around the room. “I just came to see if you were okay,” he said, not  meeting her gaze, though she could not look away from him. “I know  that’s probably weird. But Melvin talks about you all the time, so I  almost feel like I know you.” His storm-blue eyes flittered to her  again. “That’s probably weird, too.”

Realizing that he expected an answer, Serena shook her head. “No. I  kind of feel like I know you, too. He talks about you a lot… too.”

“Yeah. He likes to talk about people,” he mused, and the understated  fact sent a nervous chuckle out of Serena’s lips.

“Do you want to sit?” she asked, gesturing to the end of the bed.

He claimed her vanity chair instead. “I’m sorry about your  grandmother.”

It took Serena a moment to figure out what he was talking about, and  when she did a momentary bout of guilt swelled inside her stomach.  “Thanks.”

“You must have been close to her, huh? I’m not really close to any of  my grandparents.”

“I guess so,” Serena managed, surprise to find a spark of nerves in  the base of her stomach when Darien rubbed the back of his head. And  she was even more surprised at a spark of joy when she realized he was  nervous.

The pause that settled between them was awkward, but she could think of  nothing to say as Darien’s gaze swept over her room again. She began  to wish that she’d bothered to clean it, but he didn’t seem to notice  the mess, too taken with the framed photos and the books on her little  bookshelf.

“So Melvin tells me you’re into fairy tales?”

“You could say that.”

“Kind of a unique interest.”

She shrugged. “I’ve loved them since I was a kid. They can break your  heart, though, if you let them.”

Darien chuckled as if he thought she was joking. “Break your heart?  The kid’s stories?”

“They aren’t all for kids.”

He peered at her from the corner of his eye.

“It’s true,” she said, almost defensive. “Did you know that in the  original Cinderella, the stepsisters cut off their heels and toes in  order to get the slipper onto their feet?”

Darien flinched in disgust. “Are you serious?”

She nodded. “There are some really gruesome things in those stories.”

“That’s kind of cool,” he said, his lips quirking enough to show the  dimples in his cheeks. Serena’s heart jolted and she had to remind  herself that this was not Endymion. This was not her prince charming.  It was just a normal teenage boy. It was just Darien Shields. “But  they all still end happy, right?”

Serena glanced away, her eyes meeting the spine of her favorite book,  the collection of Grimm’s Fairy Tales. “Most of them.”

Following her gaze, Darien reached up and pulled the book from the  shelf. Serena admired how gentle his hands were with the fragile  binding and yellowed paper.

“Darien,” she ventured nervously, “can I ask you something? It’s  kind of personal.”

He flicked his eyes toward her and shut the book, letting it lie  peacefully in his lap. “Go ahead.”

She tore her eyes away and fidgeted, her hands picking at strings in  her blanket. “This is going to sound weird, but… well, if you had  only one chance to find true love, like—real, fairy tale, soul mate  kind of love—would you let it slip through your fingers?”

Darien quirked his eyebrows, took a moment to consider the question,  then muttered, “What do you mean?”

Serena shrugged, already regretting that she’d asked the question.  “Like… what if you weren’t sure the girl liked you back. Or what if … going after her was… somehow… dangerous?”

“Like if her dad was a rifle-carrying maniac who would shoot any guy  who so much looked at his daughter?”

Serena laughed. “Yeah, something like that.”

Darien leaned back in the chair, fixing his eyes on the ceiling, and  Serena was almost amazed to see him taking the question seriously.  “Well… if it was love, real love, not just the pretend, teenage love  that most of our classmates feel…” Serena nodded, surprised that  Darien could see the fake love as plainly as she could. She held her  breath, preparing herself for the same denial she had first gotten from  Endymion when asked the question. But instead, Darien said, “Then you  can’t just let it slip through your fingers. I mean, it may be scary  to do something about it, but… you owe it to yourself to at least try.  And you owe it to that other person, too, because they may be just as  much in love with you… and it would be almost cruel to deny them that,  wouldn’t it?”

Serena’s heart was pounding, a steady drum knocking against her rib  cage. “Yeah…” she breathed. “It would be.”

Endymion’s words came to her, unbidden. If I die, and you go back to  your world, I want you to give a kiss to that boy. The other me.

“But,” Darien continued, “with that said, I’m not entirely sure I  believe in this ‘one true love’ stuff to begin with.”

She frowned, leaning forward. “What do you mean?”

“Well… take my mom, for example. She married my dad when she was  nineteen, and they really, really loved each other. High school  sweethearts and all that. They were young, but it was the real thing.”

Serena nodded.

“But my dad died in a car accident when I was seven, and it was really  hard on my mom. She was heartbroken for years, and I wasn’t sure she’ d ever get over it. But then, a couple years ago, she started dating  again, and she met my step dad, and she fell in love with him. And, of  course, got married. And just because she loved my dad doesn’t mean  she loves my step dad any less, and because she loves my step dad doesn ’t mean she loved my dad any less, you know? So… I just don’t  entirely buy the one-and-only scenario. I think it’s too limiting on  the human heart. And on… destiny.”

Serena licked her lips and forced a smile. It may be the closest to  kissing you I will ever come.

“I hope you’re right,” she whispered.

Darien refocused his gaze on her. In that look she noticed all the  little, miniscule differences between him and Endymion. Endymion’s  eyebrows had been fuller, his cheekbones higher, and Darien’s eyes  were speckled with tiny flakes of black. But still…

If he’s so much like me then he must be in love with you.

“Want me to read you a story?” he asked suddenly, holding up the book  of fairy tales.

Serena snickered. “Are you kidding?”

“No, really. It would be a pleasure. Which one do you want to hear?”

She struggled with the question, beginning to fear any more awkward  moments, but Darien seemed perfectly relaxed. And so she shrugged and  laid back down, pulling the blankets up to her chin. “I don’t care.  You pick one.”

With his lips pursed in thought, Darien flipped through the pages,  scanning the titles and little black-and-white drawings. “I remember  this one,” he murmured, clearing his throat. “Once upon a time…”

“Wait,” Serena interrupted, reaching her hand out of the linens to  clap over the book, discovering Darien’s fingers on the page. They  were warm. Almost familiar. “Would you read the end first?”

“The end? No, I will not read the end first,” he said, looking  honestly disgusted at the thought.

Serena smiled, fluttering her eyelashes. “Please? In case I fall  asleep and miss it?”

Darien snorted and flipped a couple of worn page.

“And they lived happily to the end of their days.”

Serena’s smile stretched into a delighted grin as she let her head  fall deep into the pillow. “Okay,” she said. “You can start at the  beginning now.”

He grinned at her, half teasing, half compassionate. “Sure thing, Your  Highness.”

Serena couldn’t help returning the look—feeling like it was the first  time she’d smiled in ages. She closed her eyes and listened to the  crinkled sound of antique paper turning. His presence was warm beside  her. Serena felt a heated tingling at the base of her stomach, a  frightening flutter of the heart as he began to read.

It was almost the same magical feeling as the invincibility she’d felt  as a guardian.

And she heard Darien’s voice, soothing and promising as he began.

“Once upon a time…”
